[Previous](ALTER-SEQUENCE.md) [Next](SQL-Statements-ALTER-SYNONYM-to-
COMMENT.md) JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ SQL Statements: ALTER LIBRARY to ALTER SESSION](SQL-Statements-ALTER-LIBRARY-to-ALTER-SESSION.md)
  3. ALTER SESSION 

## ALTER SESSION

Purpose

Use the `ALTER` `SESSION` statement to set or modify any of the conditions or
parameters that affect your connection to the database. The statement stays in
effect until you disconnect from the database.

Prerequisites

To enable and disable the SQL trace facility, you must have `ALTER` `SESSION`
system privilege.

To enable or disable resumable space allocation, you must have the `RESUMABLE`
system privilege.

You do not need any privileges to perform the other operations of this
statement unless otherwise indicated.

Syntax

alter_session::=

![Description of alter_session.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/alter_session.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
alter_session.eps](img_text/alter_session.md)

alter_session_set_clause::=

![Description of alter_session_set_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/alter_session_set_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
alter_session_set_clause.eps](img_text/alter_session_set_clause.md)

Semantics

ADVISE Clause

The `ADVISE` clause sends advice to a remote database to force a distributed
transaction. The advice appears in the `ADVICE` column of the
`DBA_2PC_PENDING` view on the remote database (the values are '`C`' for
`COMMIT`, '`R`' for `ROLLBACK`, and ' ' for `NOTHING`). If the transaction
becomes in doubt, then the administrator of that database can use this advice
to decide whether to commit or roll back the transaction.

You can send different advice to different remote databases by issuing
multiple `ALTER` `SESSION` statements with the `ADVISE` clause in a single
transaction. Each such statement sends advice to the databases referenced in
the following statements in the transaction until another such statement is
issued.

See Also:

"[Forcing a Distributed Transaction: Example](ALTER-SESSION.md#GUID-
DC7B8CDD-4F89-40CC-875F-F70F673711D4__I2198276)"

CLOSE DATABASE LINK Clause

Specify `CLOSE` `DATABASE` `LINK` to close the database link `dblink`. When
you issue a statement that uses a database link, Oracle Database creates a
session for you on the remote database using that link. The connection remains
open until you end your local session or until the number of database links
for your session exceeds the value of the initialization parameter
`OPEN_LINKS`. If you want to reduce the network overhead associated with
keeping the link open, then use this clause to close the link explicitly if
you do not plan to use it again in your session.

See Also:

[Closing a Database Link: Example](ALTER-SESSION.md#GUID-
DC7B8CDD-4F89-40CC-875F-F70F673711D4__I2198248)

ENABLE | DISABLE COMMIT IN PROCEDURE

Procedures and stored functions written in PL/SQL can issue `COMMIT` and
`ROLLBACK` statements. If your application would be disrupted by a `COMMIT` or
`ROLLBACK` statement not issued directly by the application itself, then
specify `DISABLE` `COMMIT` `IN` `PROCEDURE` clause to prevent procedures and
stored functions called during your session from issuing these statements.

You can subsequently allow procedures and stored functions to issue `COMMIT`
and `ROLLBACK` statements in your session by issuing the `ENABLE` `COMMIT`
`IN` `PROCEDURE`.

Some applications automatically prohibit `COMMIT` and `ROLLBACK` statements in
procedures and stored functions. Refer to your application documentation for
more information.

ENABLE | DISABLE GUARD

The `security_clause` of `ALTER` `DATABASE` lets you prevent anyone other than
the `SYS` user from making any changes to data or database objects on the
primary or standby database. This clause lets you override that setting for
the current session.

See Also:

[security_clause](ALTER-
DATABASE.md#GUID-8069872F-E680-4511-ADD8-A4E30AF67986__I2110785) for more
information on the `GUARD` setting

PARALLEL DML | DDL | QUERY

The `PARALLEL` parameter determines whether all subsequent DML, DDL, or query
statements in the session will be considered for parallel execution. This
clause enables you to override the degree of parallelism of tables during the
current session without changing the tables themselves. Uncommitted
transactions must either be committed or rolled back prior to executing this
clause for DML.

See Also:

"[Enabling Parallel DML: Example](ALTER-SESSION.md#GUID-
DC7B8CDD-4F89-40CC-875F-F70F673711D4__I2198264)"

ENABLE Clause

Specify `ENABLE` to execute subsequent statements in the session in parallel.
This is the default for DDL and query statements.

  * `DML`: DML statements are executed in parallel mode if a parallel hint or a parallel clause is specified. 

  * `DDL`: DDL statements are executed in parallel mode if a parallel clause is specified. 

  * `QUERY`: Queries are executed in parallel mode if a parallel hint or a parallel clause is specified. 

Restriction on the ENABLE clause

You cannot specify the optional `PARALLEL` `integer` with `ENABLE`.

DISABLE Clause

Specify `DISABLE` to execute subsequent statements in the session serially.
This is the default for DML statements.

  * `DML`: DML statements are executed serially. 

  * `DDL`: DDL statements are executed serially. 

  * `QUERY`: Queries are executed serially. 

Restriction on the DISABLE clause

You cannot specify the optional `PARALLEL` `integer` with `DISABLE`.

FORCE Clause

`FORCE` forces parallel execution of subsequent statements in the session. If
no parallel clause or hint is specified, then a default degree of parallelism
is used. This clause overrides any `parallel_clause` specified in subsequent
statements in the session but is overridden by a parallel hint.

  * `DML`: Provided no parallel DML restrictions are violated, subsequent DML statements in the session are executed with the default degree of parallelism, unless a degree is specified in this clause. 

  * `DDL`: Subsequent DDL statements in the session are executed with the default degree of parallelism, unless a degree is specified in this clause. Resulting database objects will have associated with them the prevailing degree of parallelism. 

Specifying `FORCE` `DDL` automatically causes all tables created in this
session to be created with a default level of parallelism. The effect is the
same as if you had specified the `parallel_clause` (with the default degree)
in the `CREATE` `TABLE` statement.

  * `QUERY`: Subsequent queries are executed with the default degree of parallelism, unless a degree is specified in this clause. 

PARALLEL integer

Specify an integer to explicitly specify a degree of parallelism:

  * For `FORCE` `DDL`, the degree overrides any parallel clause in subsequent DDL statements. 

  * For `FORCE` `DML` and `QUERY`, the degree overrides the degree currently stored for the table in the data dictionary. 

  * A degree specified in a statement through a hint will override the degree being forced.

The following types of DML operations are not parallelized regardless of this
clause:

  * Operations on cluster tables

  * Operations with embedded functions that either write or read database or package states

  * Operations on tables with triggers that could fire

  * Operations on tables or schema objects containing object types, or `LONG` or LOB data types 

RESUMABLE Clauses

These clauses let you enable and disable resumable space allocation. This
feature allows an operation to be suspended in the event of an out-of-space
error condition and to resume automatically from the point of interruption
when the error condition is fixed.

Note:

Resumable space allocation is fully supported for operations on locally
managed tablespaces. Some restrictions apply if you are using dictionary-
managed tablespaces. For information on these restrictions, refer to [Oracle
Database Administrator's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN014).

ENABLE RESUMABLE

This clause enables resumable space allocation for the session.

TIMEOUT

`TIMEOUT` lets you specify (in seconds) the time during which an operation can
remain suspended while waiting for the error condition to be fixed. If the
error condition is not fixed within the `TIMEOUT` period, then Oracle Database
aborts the suspended operation.

NAME

`NAME` lets you specify a user-defined text string to help users identify the
statements issued during the session while the session is in resumable mode.
Oracle Database inserts the text string into the `USER_RESUMABLE` and
`DBA_RESUMABLE` data dictionary views. If you do not specify `NAME`, then
Oracle Database inserts the default string '`User` `username`(`userid`),
`Session` `sessionid`, `Instance` `instanceid`'.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN002) for information on the data dictionary views

DISABLE RESUMABLE

This clause disables resumable space allocation for the session.

SHARD DDL Clauses

These clauses are valid only if you are connected to a sharded database. They
let you control whether DDLs issued in the session are issued against the
shard catalog database and all shards, or against only the shard catalog
database.

  * If you specify `ENABLE` `SHARD` `DDL`, then DDLs issued in the session are issued against the shard catalog database and all shards. This mode is the default for the SDB userâa user that exists in the shard catalog database and in all shards. 

  * If you specify `DISABLE` `SHARD` `DDL`, then DDLs issued in the session are issued against only the shard catalog database. This mode is the default for a local userâa user that exists only in the shard catalog database. 

See Also:

[Using Oracle Sharding](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=SHARD-GUID-0F39B1FB-DCF9-4C8A-A2EA-88705B90C5BF)

SYNC WITH PRIMARY

Use this clause to synchronize redo apply on a physical standby database with
the primary database. An `ALTER` `SESSION` statement with this clause blocks
until redo apply has applied all redo data received by the standby at the time
the statement is issued. This clause returns an error, and synchronization
does not occur, if the redo transport state for the standby database is not
`SYNCHRONIZED` or if redo apply is not active.

See Also:

[Oracle Data Guard Concepts and
Administration](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=SBYDB4780) for more information on this session parameter

alter_session_set_clause

Use the `alter_session_set_clause` to set initialization parameter values or
to set an edition for the current session.

Initialization Parameters

You can set two types of parameters using this clause:

  * Initialization parameters that are dynamic in the scope of the `ALTER` `SESSION` statement (listed in "[Initialization Parameters and ALTER SESSION](ALTER-SESSION.md#GUID-8DBA8659-413E-49B4-98D3-D9608C9C8026)") 

  * Session parameters (listed in "[Session Parameters and ALTER SESSION](ALTER-SESSION.md#GUID-DC7B8CDD-4F89-40CC-875F-F70F673711D4)") 

You can set values for multiple parameters in the same
`alter_session_set_clause`.

EDITION

Specify `EDITION` = `edition` to set the specified edition as the edition in
the database session. You must have the `USE` object privilege on `edition`,
`edition` must already have been created, and it must be `USABLE`.

When this statement is successful, the database discards PL/SQL package state
corresponding to editionable packages but retains package state corresponding
to packages that are not editionable.

You can also set the edition for the current session at startup with the
`EDITION` parameter of the SQL*Plus `CONNECT` command. However, you cannot
specify an `ALTER` `SESSION` `SET` `EDITION` statement in a recursive SQL or
PL/SQL block.

You can determine the edition in use by the current session with the following
query:

    
    
    SELECT SYS_CONTEXT('USERENV', 'CURRENT_EDITION_NAME') FROM DUAL;

See Also:

[CREATE EDITION](CREATE-
EDITION.md#GUID-6CF92CA1-CAF7-4967-9B34-C02D72C23617) for more information
on editions and [Oracle Database PL/SQL Language
Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADFNS99919) for information on how editions are
designated as `USABLE`

CONTAINER

Use this clause in a multitenant container database (CDB) to switch to the
container specified by `container_name`.

To use this clause, you must be a common user with the `SET` `CONTAINER`
privilege, either granted commonly or granted locally in `container_name`.

For `container_name`, specify one of the following:

  * `CDB$ROOT` to switch to the root 

  * `PDB$SEED `to switch to the seed 

  * A pluggable database (PDB) name to switch to that PDB. You can view the names of the PDBs in a CDB by querying the `DBA_PDBS` view. 

You can determine the container to which the current session is connected by
using the SQL*Plus `SHOW` `CON_NAME` command or with the following SQL query:

    
    
    SELECT SYS_CONTEXT('USERENV', 'CON_NAME') FROM DUAL;

SERVICE

By default, when you switch to a container, the session uses the default
service for the container. Specify the `SERVICE` clause to use a different
service for the container. For `service_name`, specify the name of the service
you want to use.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Administrator's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN13616) for more information on switching to a
container

ROW ARCHIVAL VISIBILITY

Use this clause to configure row archival visibility for the session. This
clause lets you implement In-Database Archiving, which allows you to designate
table rows as active or archived. You can then perform queries on only the
active rows within the table.

  * If you specify `ACTIVE`, then the database will consider only active rows when performing queries on tables that are enabled for row archival. This is the default. 

  * If you specify `ALL`, then the database will consider all rows when performing queries on tables that are enabled for row archival. 

This clause has no effect on queries on tables that are not enabled for row
archival.

See Also:

  * The `CREATE` `TABLE` [ROW ARCHIVAL](CREATE-TABLE.md#GUID-F9CE0CC3-13AE-4744-A43C-EAC7A71AAAB6__CJADBDCA) clause to learn how to enable a new table for row archival 

  * The `ALTER` `TABLE` [[NO] ROW ARCHIVAL](ALTER-TABLE.md#GUID-552E7373-BF93-477D-9DA3-B2C9386F2877__CJABCCEH) clause to learn how to enable or disable an existing table for row archival 

  * [Oracle Database VLDB and Partitioning Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=VLDBG14154) for more information on In-Database Archiving 

DEFAULT_COLLATION

Use this clause to set the default collation for the session.

  * Use `collation_name` to specify the default collation for the session. You can specify the name of any valid named collation or pseudo-collation. This collation becomes the effective schema default collation. This collation is assigned to tables, views, and materialized views that are subsequently created in any schema for the duration of the session. The default collation for the session does not get propagated to any remote sessions connected to the current session using DB links. 

  * If you specify `NONE`, then there is no default collation for the session. In this case, the default collation for a particular schema becomes the effective schema default collation for that schema. That default collation is assigned to tables, views, and materialized views that are subsequently created in the schema for the duration of the session. 

In either of the preceding cases, you can override the effective schema
default collation and assign a default collation to a particular table,
materialized view, or view by specifying the `DEFAULT` `COLLATION` clause of
the `CREATE` or `ALTER` statement for the table, materialized view, or view.

The effective schema default collation also affects the DDL statements
`CREATE` `FUNCTION`, `CREATE` `PACKAGE`, `CREATE` `PROCEDURE`, `CREATE`
`TRIGGER`, and `CREATE` `TYPE`. Refer to [Oracle Database PL/SQL Language
Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=LNPLS99979) for more details on these statements.

You can query the default collation for a session with the following
statement:

    
    
    SELECT SYS_CONTEXT('USERENV', 'SESSION_DEFAULT_COLLATION') FROM DUAL;

You can specify the `SET` `DEFAULT_COLLATION` clause only if the `COMPATIBLE`
initialization parameter is set to `12.2` or greater, and the
`MAX_STRING_SIZE` initialization parameter is set to `EXTENDED`.

See Also:

The [DEFAULT COLLATION Clause](CREATE-
USER.md#GUID-F0246961-558F-480B-AC0F-14B50134621C__DEFAULTCOLLATIONCLAUSE-39EC6E26)
clause of `CREATE` `USER` for more information on the default collation of a
schema

Note:

The effective schema default collation for a session should not be confused
with the session parameter `NLS_SORT`. The effective schema default collation
is used by DDL statements to decide the default data-bound collation of
tables, views, and materialized views when they are created. The session
parameter `NLS_SORT` points to a named collation that is used when Oracle
executes a query, a DML statement, or PL/SQL code containing a SQL operation
whose determined collation is a pseudo-collation, such as `USING_NLS_COMP` or
`USING_NLS_SORT`. Refer to [Oracle Database Globalization Support
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG005) for more information.

### Initialization Parameters and ALTER SESSION

Some initialization parameter are dynamic in the scope of `ALTER` `SESSION`.
When you set these parameters using `ALTER` `SESSION`, the value you set
persists only for the duration of the current session.To determine whether a
parameter can be altered using an `ALTER` `SESSION` statement, query the
`ISSES_MODIFIABLE` column of the `V$PARAMETER` dynamic performance view.

Note:

Before changing the values of initialization parameters, refer to their full
description in [Oracle Database
Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN001).

A number of parameters that can be set using `ALTER` `SESSION` are not
initialization parameters. You can set them only with `ALTER` `SESSION`, not
in an initialization parameter file. Those session parameters are described in
"[Session Parameters and ALTER SESSION](ALTER-SESSION.md#GUID-
DC7B8CDD-4F89-40CC-875F-F70F673711D4)".

### Session Parameters and ALTER SESSION

The following parameters are session parameters only, not initialization
parameters:

CONSTRAINT[S]

`Syntax:`

    
    
    CONSTRAINT[S] = { IMMEDIATE | DEFERRED | DEFAULT }
    

The `CONSTRAINT[S]` parameter determines when conditions specified by a
deferrable constraint are enforced.

  * `IMMEDIATE` indicates that the conditions specified by the deferrable constraint are checked immediately after each DML statement. This setting is equivalent to issuing the `SET` `CONSTRAINTS` `ALL` `IMMEDIATE` statement at the beginning of each transaction in your session. 

  * `DEFERRED` indicates that the conditions specified by the deferrable constraint are checked when the transaction is committed. This setting is equivalent to issuing the `SET` `CONSTRAINTS` `ALL` `DEFERRED` statement at the beginning of each transaction in your session. 

  * `DEFAULT` restores all constraints at the beginning of each transaction to their initial state of `DEFERRED` or `IMMEDIATE`. 

CURRENT_SCHEMA

`Syntax:`

    
    
    CURRENT_SCHEMA = schema
    

The `CURRENT_SCHEMA` parameter changes the current schema of the session to
the specified schema. Subsequent unqualified references to schema objects
during the session will resolve to objects in the specified schema. The
setting persists for the duration of the session or until you issue another
`ALTER` `SESSION` `SET` `CURRENT_SCHEMA` statement.

This setting offers a convenient way to perform operations on objects in a
schema other than that of the current user without having to qualify the
objects with the schema name. This setting changes the current schema, but it
does not change the session user or the current user, nor does it give the
session user any additional system or object privileges for the session.

ERROR_ON_OVERLAP_TIME

`Syntax:`

    
    
    ERROR_ON_OVERLAP_TIME = {TRUE | FALSE}
    

The `ERROR_ON_OVERLAP_TIME` parameter determines how Oracle Database should
handle an ambiguous boundary datetime valueâa case in which it is not clear
whether the datetime is in standard or daylight saving time.

  * Specify `TRUE` to return an error for the ambiguous overlap timestamp. 

  * Specify `FALSE` to default the ambiguous overlap timestamp to the standard time. This is the default. 

Refer to "[Support for Daylight Saving Times](Data-
Types.md#GUID-F8686599-B7AE-477D-8A58-FA0AA8B2C348)" for more information on
boundary datetime values.

FLAGGER

`Syntax:`

    
    
    FLAGGER = { ENTRY | OFF }
    

The `FLAGGER` parameter specifies FIPS flagging (as specified in Federal
Information Processing Standard 127-2), which causes an error message to be
generated when a SQL statement issued is an extension of the Entry Level of
SQL-92 (officially, ANSI X3.135-1992, a standard that is now superseded by
SQL:2016). `FLAGGER` is a session parameter only, not an initialization
parameter.

After flagging is set in a session, a subsequent `ALTER` `SESSION` `SET`
`FLAGGER` statement will work, but generates the message, ORA-00097. This
allows FIPS flagging to be altered without disconnecting the session. `OFF`
turns off flagging.

See Also:

[Oracle and Standard SQL](Oracle-and-Standard-
SQL.md#GUID-330DEBBB-006E-4B35-A516-5C0AEFFE06B9), for more information
about Oracle compliance with current ANSI SQL standards

Starting with Oracle Database 23ai, several parameters associated with
`FIPS_140` are deprecated.

`FIPS_140` in `FIPS.ORA` can be used to enable `FIPS` for all features
starting with Oracle Database 23ai. The following FIPS parameters are
deprecated:

  * SQLNET.ORA: `FIPS_140` to enable FIPS for native network encryption 
  * FIPS.ORA: `SSLFIPS_140` to enable FIPS for TLS 
  * Initialization parameter: `DBFIPS_140` to enable FIPS for TDE and `DBMS_CRYPTO`

INSTANCE

`Syntax:`

    
    
    INSTANCE = integer
    

Setting the `INSTANCE` parameter lets you access another instance as if you
were connected to your own instance. `INSTANCE` is a session parameter only,
not an initialization parameter. In an Oracle Real Application Clusters
(Oracle RAC) environment, each Oracle RAC instance retains static or dynamic
ownership of disk space for optimal DML performance based on the setting of
this parameter.

ISOLATION_LEVEL ``

`Syntax:`

    
    
    ISOLATION_LEVEL = {SERIALIZABLE | READ COMMITTED} 
    

The `ISOLATION_LEVEL` parameter specifies how transactions containing database
modifications are handled. `ISOLATION_LEVEL` is a session parameter only, not
an initialization parameter.

  * `SERIALIZABLE` indicates that transactions in the session use the serializable transaction isolation mode as specified in the SQL standard. If a serializable transaction attempts to execute a DML statement that updates rows currently being updated by another uncommitted transaction at the start of the serializable transaction, then the DML statement fails. A serializable transaction can see its own updates. 

  * `READ` `COMMITTED` indicates that transactions in the session will use the default Oracle Database transaction behavior. If the transaction contains DML that requires row locks held by another transaction, then the DML statement will wait until the row locks are released. 

Note:

Serializable transactions do not work with deferred segment creation or
interval partitioning. Trying to insert data into an empty table with no
segment created, or into a partition of an interval partitioned table that
does not yet have a segment, causes an error.

STANDBY_MAX_DATA_DELAY

`Syntax:`

    
    
    STANDBY_MAX_DATA_DELAY =  { integer | NONE } 
    

In an Active Data Guard environment, this session parameter can be used to
specify a session-specific apply lag tolerance, measured in seconds, for
queries issued by non-administrative users to a physical standby database that
is in real-time query mode. This capability allows queries to be safely
offloaded from the primary database to a physical standby database, because it
is possible to detect if the standby database has become unacceptably stale.

If `STANDBY_MAX_DATA_DELAY` is set to the default value of `NONE`, queries
issued to a physical standby database will be executed regardless of the apply
lag on that database.

If `STANDBY_MAX_DATA_DELAY` is set to a nonzero value, a query issued to a
physical standby database will be executed only if the apply lag is less than
or equal to `STANDBY_MAX_DATA_DELAY`. Otherwise, an `ORA-3172` error is
returned to alert the client that the apply lag is too large.

If `STANDBY_MAX_DATA_DELAY` is set to `0`, a query issued to a physical
standby database is guaranteed to return the exact same result as if the query
were issued on the primary database, unless the standby database is lagging
behind the primary database, in which case an `ORA-3172` error is returned.

See Also:

[Oracle Data Guard Concepts and
Administration](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=SBYDB4701) for more information on Active Data Guard and
using this session parameter

TIME_ZONE

`Syntax:`

    
    
    TIME_ZONE =  '[+ | -] hh:mi' 
                 | LOCAL 
                 | DBTIMEZONE 
                 | 'time_zone_region'
    

The `TIME_ZONE` parameter specifies the default local time zone offset or
region name for the current SQL session. `TIME_ZONE` is a session parameter
only, not an initialization parameter. To determine the time zone of the
current session, query the built-in function `SESSIONTIMEZONE` (see
[SESSIONTIMEZONE](SESSIONTIMEZONE.md#GUID-2A243878-C1C5-4B7C-81DE-D8B024796EAB)).

  * Specify a format mask (`'[+|-]``hh``:``mi``'`) indicating the hours and minutes before or after UTC (Coordinated Universal Timeâformerly Greenwich Mean Time). The valid range for `hh:mi` is -12:00 to +14:00. 

  * Specify `LOCAL` to set the default local time zone offset of the current SQL session to the original default local time zone offset that was established when the current SQL session was started. 

  * Specify `DBTIMEZONE` to set the current session time zone to match the value set for the database time zone. If you specify this setting, then the `DBTIMEZONE` function will return the database time zone as a UTC offset or a time zone region, depending on how the database time zone has been set. 

  * Specify a valid `time_zone_region`. To see a listing of valid time zone region names, query the `TZNAME` column of the `V$TIMEZONE_NAMES` dynamic performance view. If you specify this setting, then the `SESSIONTIMEZONE` function will return the region name. 

Note:

Time zone region names are needed by the daylight saving feature. These names
are stored in two types of time zone files: one large and one small. One of
these files is the default file, depending on your environment and the release
of Oracle Database you are using. For more information regarding time zone
files and names, see [Oracle Database Globalization Support
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG014).

See Also:

[Oracle Database Globalization Support
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG0141) for a complete listing of the time zone region
names in both files

Note:

You can also set the default client session time zone using the `ORA_SDTZ`
environment variable. Refer to [Oracle Database Globalization Support
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG004) for more information on this variable.

USE_PRIVATE_OUTLINES

`Syntax:`

    
    
    USE_PRIVATE_OUTLINES = { TRUE | FALSE | category_name }
    

The `USE_PRIVATE_OUTLINES` parameter lets you control the use of private
outlines. When this parameter is enabled and an outlined SQL statement is
issued, the optimizer retrieves the outline from the session private area
rather than the public area used when `USE_STORED_OUTLINES` is enabled. If no
outline exists in the session private area, then the optimizer will not use an
outline to compile the statement. `USE_PRIVATE_OUTLINES` is not an
initialization parameter.

  * `TRUE` causes the optimizer to use private outlines stored in the `DEFAULT` category when compiling requests. 

  * `FALSE` specifies that the optimizer should not use stored private outlines. This is the default. If `USE_STORED_OUTLINES` is enabled, then the optimizer will use stored public outlines. 

  * `category_name` causes the optimizer to use outlines stored in the `category_name` category when compiling requests. 

Restriction on USE_PRIVATE_OUTLINES

You cannot enable this parameter if `USE_STORED_OUTLINES` is enabled.

USE_STORED_OUTLINES

Note:

Stored outlines are deprecated. They are still supported for backward
compatibility. However, Oracle recommends that you use SQL plan management
instead. Refer to [Oracle Database SQL Tuning
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=TGSQL615) for more information about SQL plan management.

Syntax:

    
    
    USE_STORED_OUTLINES = { TRUE | FALSE | category_name }
    

The `USE_STORED_OUTLINES` parameter determines whether the optimizer will use
stored public outlines to generate execution plans. `USE_STORED_OUTLINES` is
not an initialization parameter.

  * `TRUE` causes the optimizer to use outlines stored in the `DEFAULT` category when compiling requests. 

  * `FALSE` specifies that the optimizer should not use stored outlines. This is the default. 

  * `category_name` causes the optimizer to use outlines stored in the `category_name` category when compiling requests. 

Restriction on USED_STORED_OUTLINES

You cannot enable this parameter if `USE_PRIVATE_OUTLINES` is enabled.

Examples

Enabling Parallel DML: Example

Issue the following statement to enable parallel DML mode for the current
session:

    
    
    ALTER SESSION ENABLE PARALLEL DML;

Forcing a Distributed Transaction: Example

The following transaction inserts an employee record into the `employees`
table on the database identified by the database link `remote` and deletes an
employee record from the `employees` table on the database identified by
`local`:

    
    
    ALTER SESSION
       ADVISE COMMIT; 
    
    INSERT INTO employees@remote
       VALUES (8002, 'Juan', 'Fernandez', 'juanf@example.com', NULL, 
       TO_DATE('04-OCT-1992', 'DD-MON-YYYY'), 'SA_CLERK', 3000, 
       NULL, 121, 20); 
    
    ALTER SESSION
       ADVISE ROLLBACK; 
    
    DELETE FROM employees@local
       WHERE employee_id = 8002; 
    
    COMMIT;  
    

This transaction has two `ALTER` `SESSION` statements with the `ADVISE`
clause. If the transaction becomes in doubt, then `remote` is sent the advice
'`COMMIT`' by virtue of the first `ALTER` `SESSION` statement and `local` is
sent the advice '`ROLLBACK`' by virtue of the second statement.

Closing a Database Link: Example

This statement updates the `jobs` table on the `local` database using a
database link, commits the transaction, and explicitly closes the database
link:

    
    
    UPDATE jobs@local SET min_salary = 3000
       WHERE job_id = 'SH_CLERK';
    
    COMMIT; 
    
    ALTER SESSION
       CLOSE DATABASE LINK local;

Changing the Date Format Dynamically: Example

The following statement dynamically changes the default date format for your
session to `'YYYY MM DD-HH24:MI:SS'`:

    
    
    ALTER SESSION 
       SET NLS_DATE_FORMAT = 'YYYY MM DD HH24:MI:SS';
    

Oracle Database uses the new default date format:

    
    
    SELECT TO_CHAR(SYSDATE) Today
       FROM DUAL; 
    
    TODAY 
    ------------------- 
    2001 04 12 12:30:38

Changing the Date Language Dynamically: Example

The following statement changes the language for date format elements to
French:

    
    
    ALTER SESSION 
       SET NLS_DATE_LANGUAGE = French;
    
    SELECT TO_CHAR(SYSDATE, 'Day DD Month YYYY') Today
       FROM DUAL; 
    
    TODAY 
    --------------------------- 
    Jeudi    12 Avril     2001

Changing the ISO Currency: Example

The following statement dynamically changes the ISO currency symbol to the ISO
currency symbol for the territory America:

    
    
    ALTER SESSION
       SET NLS_ISO_CURRENCY = America; 
    
    SELECT TO_CHAR( SUM(salary), 'C999G999D99') Total
       FROM employees; 
    
    TOTAL
    ------------------
         USD694,900.00

Changing the Decimal Character and Group Separator: Example

The following statement dynamically changes the decimal character to comma (,)
and the group separator to period (.):

    
    
    ALTER SESSION SET NLS_NUMERIC_CHARACTERS = ',.' ;
    

Oracle Database returns these new characters when you use their number format
elements:

    
    
    ALTER SESSION SET NLS_CURRENCY = 'FF';
    
    SELECT TO_CHAR( SUM(salary), 'L999G999D99') Total FROM employees;
    
    TOTAL
    ---------------------
             FF694.900,00

Changing the NLS Currency: Example

The following statement dynamically changes the local currency symbol to
'`DM`':

    
    
    ALTER SESSION
       SET NLS_CURRENCY = 'DM'; 
    
    SELECT TO_CHAR( SUM(salary), 'L999G999D99') Total
       FROM employees; 
    
    TOTAL
    ---------------------
             DM694.900,00

Changing the NLS Language: Example

The following statement dynamically changes to French the language in which
error messages are displayed:

    
    
    ALTER SESSION
       SET NLS_LANGUAGE = FRENCH; 
    
    Session modifiee.
    
    SELECT * FROM DMP;
    
    ORA-00942: Table ou vue inexistante

Changing the Linguistic Sort Sequence: Example

The following statement dynamically changes the linguistic sort sequence to
Spanish:

    
    
    ALTER SESSION
       SET NLS_SORT = XSpanish; 
    

Oracle Database sorts character values based on their position in the Spanish
linguistic sort sequence.

Enabling Query Rewrite: Example

This statement enables query rewrite in the current session for all
materialized views that have not been explicitly disabled:

    
    
    ALTER SESSION
      SET QUERY_REWRITE_ENABLED = TRUE;


[← Previous](ALTER-SESSION.md)

[Next →](SQL-Statements-ALTER-SYNONYM-to-COMMENT.md)
