[Previous](ALTER-VIEW.md) [Next](ASSOCIATE-STATISTICS.md) JavaScript must
be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: ALTER SYNONYM to COMMENT](SQL-Statements-ALTER-SYNONYM-to-COMMENT.md)
  3. ANALYZE 

## ANALYZE

Purpose

Use the `ANALYZE` statement to collect statistics, for example, to:

  * Collect or delete statistics about an index or index partition, table or table partition, index-organized table, cluster, or scalar object attribute.

  * Validate the structure of an index or index partition, table or table partition, index-organized table, cluster, or object reference (`REF`). 

  * Identify migrated and chained rows of a table or cluster.

Note:

The use of `ANALYZE` for the collection of optimizer statistics is obsolete.

If you want to collect optimizer statistics, use the `DBMS_STATS` package,
which lets you collect statistics in parallel, global statistics for
partitioned objects, and helps you fine tune your statistics collection in
other ways. See [Oracle Database PL/SQL Packages and Types Reference
](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ARPLS059)for more information on the `DBMS_STATS`
package.

Use the `ANALYZE` statement only for the following cases:

  * To use the `VALIDATE` or `LIST` `CHAINED` `ROWS` clauses 

  * To collect information on freelist blocks

Prerequisites

The schema object to be analyzed must be local, and it must be in your own
schema or you must have the `ANALYZE` `ANY` system privilege.

If you want to list chained rows of a table or cluster into a list table, then
the list table must be in your own schema, or you must have `INSERT` privilege
on the list table, or you must have `INSERT` `ANY` `TABLE` system privilege.

If you want to validate a partitioned table, then you must have the `INSERT`
object privilege on the table into which you list analyzed rowids, or you must
have the `INSERT` `ANY` `TABLE` system privilege.

Syntax

analyze::=

![Description of analyze.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/analyze.gif)  
[Description of the illustration analyze.eps](img_text/analyze.md)

partition_extension_clause::=

![Description of partition_extension_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/partition_extension_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
partition_extension_clause.eps](img_text/partition_extension_clause.md)

validation_clauses::=

![Description of validation_clauses.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/validation_clauses.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
validation_clauses.eps](img_text/validation_clauses.md)

into_clause::=

![Description of into_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/into_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration into_clause.eps](img_text/into_clause.md)

Semantics

schema

Specify the schema containing the table, index, or cluster. If you omit
`schema`, then Oracle Database assumes the table, index, or cluster is in your
own schema.

TABLE table

Specify a table to be analyzed. When you analyze a table, the database
collects statistics about expressions occurring in any function-based indexes
as well. Therefore, be sure to create function-based indexes on the table
before analyzing the table. Refer to [CREATE INDEX](CREATE-
INDEX.md#GUID-1F89BBC0-825F-4215-AF71-7588E31D8BFE) for more information
about function-based indexes.

When analyzing a table, the database skips all domain indexes marked `LOADING`
or `FAILED`.

For an index-organized table, the database also analyzes any mapping table and
calculates its `PCT_ACCESSS_DIRECT` statistics. These statistics estimate the
accuracy of guess data block addresses stored as part of the local rowids in
the mapping table.

Oracle Database collects the following statistics for a table. Statistics
marked with an asterisk are always computed exactly. Table statistics,
including the status of domain indexes, appear in the data dictionary views
`USER_TABLES`, `ALL_TABLES`, and `DBA_TABLES` in the columns shown in
parentheses.

  * Number of rows (`NUM_ROWS`) 

  * * Number of data blocks below the high water markâthe number of data blocks that have been formatted to receive data, regardless whether they currently contain data or are empty (`BLOCKS`) 

  * * Number of data blocks allocated to the table that have never been used (`EMPTY_BLOCKS`) 

  * Average available free space in each data block in bytes (`AVG_SPACE`) 

  * Number of chained rows (`CHAIN_COUNT`) 

  * Average row length, including the row overhead, in bytes (`AVG_ROW_LEN`) 

Restrictions on Analyzing Tables

Analyzing tables is subject to the following restrictions:

  * You cannot use `ANALYZE` to collect statistics on data dictionary tables. 

  * You cannot use `ANALYZE` to collect statistics on an external table. Instead, you must use the `DBMS_STATS` package. 

  * You cannot use `ANALYZE` to collect default statistics on a temporary table. However, if you have already created an association between one or more columns of a temporary table and a user-defined statistics type, then you can use `ANALYZE` to collect the user-defined statistics on the temporary table. 

  * You cannot compute or estimate statistics for the following column types: `REF` column types, varrays, nested tables, LOB column types (LOB column types are not analyzed, they are skipped), `LONG` column types, or object types. However, if a statistics type is associated with such a column, then Oracle Database collects user-defined statistics. 

See Also:

  * [ASSOCIATE STATISTICS](ASSOCIATE-STATISTICS.md#GUID-BD02BA6A-32A7-4093-A6B6-BAE860C0F834)

  * [Oracle Database Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN-GUID-8865F65B-EF6D-44A5-B0A1-3179EFF0C36A) for information on the data dictionary views 

partition_extension_clause

partition_extension_clause

Specify the partition or subpartition, or the partition or subpartition value,
on which you want statistics to be gathered. You cannot use this clause when
analyzing clusters.

If you specify `PARTITION` and `table` is composite-partitioned, then Oracle
Database analyzes all the subpartitions within the specified partition.

INDEX index

Specify an index to be analyzed.

Oracle Database collects the following statistics for an index. Statistics
marked with an asterisk are always computed exactly. For conventional indexes,
when you compute or estimate statistics, the statistics appear in the data
dictionary views `USER_INDEXES`, `ALL_INDEXES`, and `DBA_INDEXES` in the
columns shown in parentheses.

  * * Depth of the index from its root block to its leaf blocks (`BLEVEL`) 

  * Number of leaf blocks (`LEAF_BLOCKS`) 

  * Number of distinct index values (`DISTINCT_KEYS`) 

  * Average number of leaf blocks for each index value (`AVG_LEAF_BLOCKS_PER_KEY`) 

  * Average number of data blocks for each index value (for an index on a table) (`AVG_DATA_BLOCKS_PER_KEY`) 

  * Clustering factor (how well ordered the rows are about the indexed values) (`CLUSTERING_FACTOR`) 

For domain indexes, this statement invokes the user-defined statistics
collection function specified in the statistics type associated with the index
(see [ASSOCIATE STATISTICS](ASSOCIATE-STATISTICS.md#GUID-
BD02BA6A-32A7-4093-A6B6-BAE860C0F834)). If no statistics type is associated
with the domain index, then the statistics type associated with its indextype
is used. If no statistics type exists for either the index or its indextype,
then no user-defined statistics are collected. User-defined index statistics
appear in the `STATISTICS` column of the data dictionary views `USER_USTATS`,
`ALL_USTATS`, and `DBA_USTATS`.

Note:

  * When you analyze an index from which a substantial number of rows has been deleted, Oracle Database sometimes executes a `COMPUTE` statistics operation (which can entail a full table scan) even if you request an `ESTIMATE` statistics operation. Such an operation can be quite time consuming. 

  * In some cases, analyzing an index with the `ANALYZE` statement takes an inordinate amount of time to complete. In these cases, you can use a SQL query to validate the index. If the query determines that there is an inconsistency between a table and the index, then you can use the `ANALYZE` statement for a thorough analysis of the index. Refer to [Oracle Database Administrator's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN14215) for more information. 

Restriction on Analyzing Indexes

You cannot analyze a domain index that is marked `IN_PROGRESS` or `FAILED`.

See Also:

  * [CREATE INDEX](CREATE-INDEX.md#GUID-1F89BBC0-825F-4215-AF71-7588E31D8BFE) for more information on domain indexes 

  * [Oracle Database Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN-GUID-8865F65B-EF6D-44A5-B0A1-3179EFF0C36A) for information on the data dictionary views 

  * "[Analyzing an Index: Example](ANALYZE.md#GUID-535CE98E-2359-4147-839F-DCB3772C1B0E__I2154661)"

CLUSTER cluster

Specify a cluster to be analyzed. When you collect statistics for a cluster,
Oracle Database also automatically collects the statistics for all the tables
in the cluster and all their indexes, including the cluster index.

For both indexed and hash clusters, the database collects the average number
of data blocks taken up by a single cluster key (`AVG_BLOCKS_PER_KEY`). These
statistics appear in the data dictionary views `ALL_CLUSTERS`,
`USER_CLUSTERS`, and `DBA_CLUSTERS`.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN-GUID-8865F65B-EF6D-44A5-B0A1-3179EFF0C36A) for
information on the data dictionary views and "[Analyzing a Cluster:
Example](ANALYZE.md#GUID-535CE98E-2359-4147-839F-DCB3772C1B0E__I2115909)"

validation_clauses

The validation clauses let you validate `REF` values and the structure of the
analyzed object.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Administrator's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN11526) for more information about validating tables,
indexes, clusters, and materialized views

VALIDATE REF UPDATE Clause

Specify `VALIDATE` `REF` `UPDATE` to validate the `REF` values in the
specified table, check the rowid portion in each `REF`, compare it with the
true rowid, and correct it, if necessary. You can use this clause only when
analyzing a table.

If the owner of the table does not have the `READ` or `SELECT` object
privilege on the referenced objects, then Oracle Database will consider them
invalid and set them to null. Subsequently these `REF` values will not be
available in a query, even if it is issued by a user with appropriate
privileges on the objects.

SET DANGLING TO NULL

`SET` `DANGLING` `TO` `NULL` sets to null any `REF` values (whether or not
scoped) in the specified table that are found to point to an invalid or
nonexistent object.

VALIDATE STRUCTURE

Specify `VALIDATE` `STRUCTURE` to validate the structure of the analyzed
object. The statistics collected by this clause are not used by the Oracle
Database optimizer.

See Also:

"[Validating a Table:
Example](ANALYZE.md#GUID-535CE98E-2359-4147-839F-DCB3772C1B0E__I2115898)"

  * For a table, Oracle Database verifies the integrity of each of the data blocks and rows. For an index-organized table, the database also generates compression statistics (optimal prefix compression count) for the primary key index on the table.

  * For a cluster, Oracle Database automatically validates the structure of the cluster tables. 

  * For a partitioned table, Oracle Database also verifies that each row belongs to the correct partition. If a row does not collate correctly, then its rowid is inserted into the `INVALID_ROWS` table. 

  * For a temporary table, Oracle Database validates the structure of the table and its indexes during the current session.

  * For an index, Oracle Database verifies the integrity of each data block in the index and checks for block corruption. This clause does not confirm that each row in the table has an index entry or that each index entry points to a row in the table. You can perform these operations by validating the structure of the table with the [CASCADE](ANALYZE.md#GUID-535CE98E-2359-4147-839F-DCB3772C1B0E__I2111178) clause. 

Oracle Database also computes compression statistics (optimal prefix
compression count) for all normal indexes.

Oracle Database stores statistics about the index in the data dictionary views
`INDEX_STATS` and `INDEX_HISTOGRAM`.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN-GUID-8865F65B-EF6D-44A5-B0A1-3179EFF0C36A) for
information on these views

If Oracle Database encounters corruption in the structure of the object, then
an error message is returned. In this case, drop and re-create the object.

CASCADE

Specify `CASCADE` if you want Oracle Database to validate the structure of the
indexes associated with the table or cluster. If you use this clause when
validating a table, then the database also validates the indexes defined on
the table. If you use this clause when validating a cluster, then the database
also validates all the cluster tables indexes, including the cluster index.

By default, `CASCADE` performs a `COMPLETE` validation, which can be resource
intensive. Specify `FAST` if you want the database to check for the existence
of corruptions without reporting details about the corruption. If the `FAST`
check finds a corruption, you can then use the `CASCADE` option without the
`FAST` clause to locate and learn details about it.

If you use this clause to validate an enabled (but previously disabled)
function-based index, then validation errors may result. In this case, you
must rebuild the index.

ONLINE | OFFLINE

Specify `ONLINE` to enable Oracle Database to run the validation while DML
operations are ongoing within the object. The database reduces the amount of
validation performed to allow for concurrency.

Note:

When you validate the structure of an object `ONLINE`, Oracle Database does
not collect any statistics, as it does when you validate the structure of the
object `OFFLINE`.

Specify `OFFLINE`, to maximize the amount of validation performed. This
setting prevents `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` statements from concurrently
accessing the object during validation but allows queries. This is the
default.

Restriction on ONLINE

You cannot specify `ONLINE` when analyzing a cluster.

INTO

The `INTO` clause of `VALIDATE` `STRUCTURE` is valid only for partitioned
tables. Specify a table into which Oracle Database lists the rowids of the
partitions whose rows do not collate correctly. If you omit `schema`, then the
database assumes the list is in your own schema. If you omit this clause
altogether, then the database assumes that the table is named `INVALID_ROWS`.
The SQL script used to create this table is `UTLVALID.SQL`.

LIST CHAINED ROWS

`LIST` `CHAINED` `ROWS` lets you identify migrated and chained rows of the
analyzed table or cluster. You cannot use this clause when analyzing an index.

In the `INTO` clause, specify a table into which Oracle Database lists the
migrated and chained rows. If you omit `schema`, then the database assumes the
chained-rows table is in your own schema. If you omit this clause altogether,
then the database assumes that the table is named `CHAINED_ROWS`. The chained-
rows table must be on your local database.

You can create the `CHAINED_ROWS` table using one of these scripts:

  * `UTLCHAIN.SQL` uses physical rowids. Therefore it can accommodate rows from conventional tables but not from index-organized tables. (See the Note that follows.) 

  * `UTLCHN1.SQL` uses universal rowids, so it can accommodate rows from both conventional and index-organized tables. 

If you create your own chained-rows table, then it must follow the format
prescribed by one of these two scripts.

If you are analyzing index-organized tables based on primary keys (rather than
universal rowids), then you must create a separate chained-rows table for each
index-organized table to accommodate its primary-key storage. Use the SQL
scripts `DBMSIOTC.SQL` and `PRVTIOTC.PLB` to define the
`BUILD_CHAIN_ROWS_TABLE` procedure, and then execute this procedure to create
an `IOT_CHAINED_ROWS` table for each such index-organized table.

See Also:

  * The `DBMS_IOT` package in [Oracle Database PL/SQL Packages and Types Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ARPLS018) for information on the packaged SQL scripts 

  * "[Listing Chained Rows: Example](ANALYZE.md#GUID-535CE98E-2359-4147-839F-DCB3772C1B0E__I2115921)"

DELETE STATISTICS

Specify `DELETE` `STATISTICS` to delete any statistics about the analyzed
object that are currently stored in the data dictionary. Use this statement
when you no longer want Oracle Database to use the statistics.

When you use this clause on a table, the database also automatically removes
statistics for all the indexes defined on the table. When you use this clause
on a cluster, the database also automatically removes statistics for all the
cluster tables and all their indexes, including the cluster index.

Specify `SYSTEM` if you want Oracle Database to delete only system (not user-
defined) statistics. If you omit `SYSTEM`, and if user-defined column or index
statistics were collected for an object, then the database also removes the
user-defined statistics by invoking the statistics deletion function specified
in the statistics type that was used to collect the statistics.

See Also:

"[Deleting Statistics:
Example](ANALYZE.md#GUID-535CE98E-2359-4147-839F-DCB3772C1B0E__I2115827)"

Examples

Deleting Statistics: Example

The following statement deletes statistics about the sample table `oe.orders`
and all its indexes from the data dictionary:

    
    
    ANALYZE TABLE orders DELETE STATISTICS; 

Analyzing an Index: Example

The following statement validates the structure of the sample index
`oe.inv_product_ix`:

    
    
    ANALYZE INDEX inv_product_ix VALIDATE STRUCTURE; 

Validating a Table: Example

The following statement analyzes the sample table `hr.employees` and all of
its indexes:

    
    
    ANALYZE TABLE employees VALIDATE STRUCTURE CASCADE; 
    

For a table, the `VALIDATE` `REF` `UPDATE` clause verifies the `REF` values in
the specified table, checks the rowid portion of each `REF`, and then compares
it with the true rowid. If the result is an incorrect rowid, then the `REF` is
updated so that the rowid portion is correct.

The following statement validates the `REF` values in the sample table
`oe.customers`:

    
    
    ANALYZE TABLE customers VALIDATE REF UPDATE;
    

The following statement validates the structure of the sample table
`oe.customers` while allowing simultaneous DML:

    
    
    ANALYZE TABLE customers VALIDATE STRUCTURE ONLINE;

Analyzing a Cluster: Example

The following statement analyzes the `personnel` cluster (created in
"[Creating a Cluster: Example](CREATE-
CLUSTER.md#GUID-4DBC701F-AFC3-486D-AA32-B5CB1D6946F7__I2105033)"), all of
its tables, and all of their indexes, including the cluster index:

    
    
    ANALYZE CLUSTER personnel
        VALIDATE STRUCTURE CASCADE; 

Listing Chained Rows: Example

The following statement collects information about all the chained rows in the
table `orders`:

    
    
    ANALYZE TABLE orders
       LIST CHAINED ROWS INTO chained_rows; 
    

The preceding statement places the information into the table `chained_rows`.
You can then examine the rows with this query (no rows will be returned if the
table contains no chained rows):

    
    
    SELECT owner_name, table_name, head_rowid, analyze_timestamp 
        FROM chained_rows
        ORDER BY owner_name, table_name, head_rowid, analyze_timestamp; 
    
    OWNER_NAME  TABLE_NAME  HEAD_ROWID         ANALYZE_TIMESTAMP
    ----------  ----------  ------------------ -----------------
    OE          ORDERS      AAAAZzAABAAABrXAAA 25-SEP-2000 


[← Previous](ALTER-VIEW.md)

[Next →](ASSOCIATE-STATISTICS.md)
