[Previous](storage_clause.md) [Next](SQL-Queries-and-Subqueries.md)
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Common SQL DDL Clauses ](Common-SQL-DDL-Clauses.md)
  3. annotations_clause

## annotations_clause

Purpose

Annotations provide a mechanism to store application metadata centrally in the
database, so that they can be shared across applications, modules and
microservices.

You can add annotations to any supported schema objects that you own at
creation time via `CREATE` statements.

On supported schema objects that you have alter privileges on, you can add and
drop annotations via `ALTER` statements. You do not need to qualify the
annotation name with the schema name. Whenever a schema object drops an
annotation, or when a schema object is dropped altogether, the usage of the
annotation is updated to reflect the drop.

An individual annotation has a name and an optional value. Both the name and
the value are freeform text fields. Annotations are additive, meaning that
multiple annotations can be specified for the same schema object in a single
DDL.

When an annotation name is specified for a schema object for the first time,
an annotation is automatically created. Supported schema objects include
tables, views, materialized views, and indexes. The annotation is represented
as a subordinate element to the database object to which it has been added.
Whenever a schema object drops an annotation, or when a schema object is
dropped altogether, the usage of the annotation is updated to reflect the
drop.

Dictionary views track the list of annotations and their usage across all
schema objects. You can query dictionary views
`USER|ALL|DBA_ANNOTATIONS_USAGE` to list the annotations for a schema object.

Prerequisites

You must own the schema object or have `ALTER` privileges on the schema object
in order to specify annotations on the object.

Syntax

annotations_clause::=

  

![Description of annotations_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/annotations_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
annotations_clause.eps](img_text/annotations_clause.md)

  

annotations_list::=

  

![Description of annotations_list.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/annotations_list.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
annotations_list.eps](img_text/annotations_list.md)

  

annotation::=

  

![Description of annotation.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/annotation.gif)  
[Description of the illustration annotation.eps](img_text/annotation.md)

  

annotation_name::=

  

![Description of annotation_name.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/annotation_name.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
annotation_name.eps](img_text/annotation_name.md)

  

annotation_value::=

  

![Description of annotation_value.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/annotation_value.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
annotation_value.eps](img_text/annotation_value.md)

  

Semantics

annotations_clause

Specify `ADD`, `DROP`, or `REPLACE` to create, remove, or change annotations
respectively.

  * `ADD` creates `annotation_name`. This is the default when no keyword is specified before annotation. If the object already has an annotation with this name, the statement raises an error. 

Use `ADD IF NOT EXISTS` to allow the statement to complete without error. If
`annotation_name` is already present, it keeps its original value when using
the `IF NOT EXISTS` clause.

`ADD [IF NOT EXISTS]` is the only valid option to use with `CREATE`
statements.

  * `DROP` removes `annotation_name` from the object. If the object has no annotation with this name, the statement raises an error. Use `DROP IF EXISTS` to allow the statement to complete without error. This clause is only valid in `ALTER` statements. 

  * `REPLACE` changes `annotation_value` for `annotation_name` to the supplied value. If you omit the value, this removes any existing value for `annotation_name`. If `annotation_name` does not exist the statement will raise an error. This clause is only valid in `ALTER` statements. 

The `annotation_name` is an identifier that can have up to 1024 characters. If
the annotation name is a reserved word it must be provided in double quotes.
When a double quoted identifier is used, the identifier can also contain
whitespace characters. However, identifiers that contain only whitespace
characters are not accepted.

An annotation is either a name-value pair or a name by itself. The name and
the optional value are freeform text fields. Value can have a maximum of 4000
characters. An annotation `Display_Label, âEmployee Salaryâ` has a name
and a value, whereas an annotation `UI_Hidden` has only a name and it does not
need a value. `UI_Hidden` is a standalone annotation used to specify that the
column should be hidden.

Examples

Add Annotations to a Table

The following example adds two operations with values `Sort` and `Group`, and
a standalone `Hidden` without a value, to table `t1`:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE t1 (T NUMBER) ANNOTATIONS(Operations '["Sort", "Group"]', Hidden);

The annotation can be preceded by the keyword `ADD` which is the default
operation if nothing is specified as the following example shows:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE t1 (T NUMBER) ANNOTATIONS (ADD Hidden);

Alter Annotations at the Table Level

The following example drops all annotations from `t1`:

    
    
    ALTER TABLE t1 ANNOTATIONS(DROP Operations, DROP Hidden);

Add Annotations to Table Columns

    
    
    CREATE TABLE t1 (T NUMBER ANNOTATIONS(Operations 'Sort' , Hidden) );

Add Annotations to Table and Columns

    
    
    CREATE TABLE employee (
      id NUMBER(5)
        ANNOTATIONS(Identity, Display 'Employee ID', "Group" 'Emp_Info'),
      ename VARCHAR2(50)
        ANNOTATIONS(Display 'Employee Name', "Group" 'Emp_Info'),
      sal NUMBER
        ANNOTATIONS(Display 'Employee Salary', UI_Hidden)
    ) ANNOTATIONS (Display 'Employee Table');

Alter Annotations at the Column Level

    
    
    ALTER TABLE employee
      MODIFY ename ANNOTATIONS (
        DROP "Group",
        DROP IF EXISTS missing_annotation,
        REPLACE Display 'Emp name'
      );


[← Previous](storage_clause.md)

[Next →](SQL-Queries-and-Subqueries.md)
