[Previous](AUDIT-Traditional-Auditing.md) [Next](CALL.md) JavaScript must
be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: ALTER SYNONYM to COMMENT](SQL-Statements-ALTER-SYNONYM-to-COMMENT.md)
  3. AUDIT (Unified Auditing)

## AUDIT (Unified Auditing)

This section describes the `AUDIT` statement for unified auditing. This type
of auditing is new beginning with Oracle Database 12c and provides a full set
of enhanced auditing features. Refer to [Oracle Database Security
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG630) for more information on unified auditing.

Purpose

Use the `AUDIT` statement to:

  * Enable a unified audit policy for all users or for specified users

  * Specify whether an audit record is created if the audited event fails, succeeds, or both

  * Specify application context attributes, whose values will be recorded in audit records

Changes made to the audit policy become effective immediately in the current
session and in all active sessions without re-login.

See Also:

  * [NOAUDIT (Unified Auditing)](NOAUDIT-Unified-Auditing.md#GUID-EB92BE04-B09C-493F-952E-9629E739900E)

  * [CREATE AUDIT POLICY (Unified Auditing)](CREATE-AUDIT-POLICY-Unified-Auditing.md#GUID-8D6961FB-2E50-46F5-81F7-9AEA314FC693)

  * [ALTER AUDIT POLICY (Unified Auditing)](ALTER-AUDIT-POLICY-Unified-Auditing.md#GUID-CC41B5C2-09F4-40BC-B7FD-3B4C0A3F5437)

  * [DROP AUDIT POLICY (Unified Auditing)](DROP-AUDIT-POLICY-Unified-Auditing.md#GUID-811D3F84-744E-47A1-B69D-C9D2FA4A0844)

Prerequisites

You must have the `AUDIT` `SYSTEM` system privilege or the `AUDIT_ADMIN` role.

If you are connected to a multitenant container database (CDB), then to enable
a common unified audit policy, the current container must be the root and you
must have the commonly granted `AUDIT` `SYSTEM` privilege or the `AUDIT_ADMIN`
common role. To enable a local unified audit policy, the current container
must be the container in which the audit policy was created and you must have
the commonly granted `AUDIT` `SYSTEM` privilege or the `AUDIT_ADMIN` common
role, or you must have the locally granted `AUDIT` `SYSTEM` privilege or the
`AUDIT_ADMIN` local role in the container.

To specify the `AUDIT` `CONTEXT` ... statement when connected to a CDB, you
must have the commonly granted `AUDIT` `SYSTEM` privilege or the `AUDIT_ADMIN`
common role, or you must have the locally granted `AUDIT` `SYSTEM` privilege
or the `AUDIT_ADMIN` local role in the current session's container.

Syntax

unified_audit::=

![Description of unified_audit.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/unified_audit.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
unified_audit.eps](img_text/unified_audit.md)

by_users_with_roles::=

![Description of by_users_with_roles.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/by_users_with_roles.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
by_users_with_roles.eps](img_text/by_users_with_roles.md)

Semantics

policy

With Oracle Database Release 21c unified audit policies are enforced on the
current user who executes the SQL statement.

Specify the name of the unified audit policy to be enabled. (The policy must
be created previously by the `CREATE` `AUDIT` `POLICY` statement.) The policy
becomes active immediately for the current session and active ongoing sessions
as soon as the `AUDIT` `POLICY` statement is executed.

You can find descriptions of all unified audit policies by querying the
`AUDIT_UNIFIED_POLICIES` view and descriptions of all enabled unified audit
policies by querying the `AUDIT_UNIFIED_ENABLED_POLICIES` view.

When you enable a unified audit policy, all SQL statements and operations that
satisfy either a system privilege or action or role audit option specified in
the enabled policy will be auditedâthat is, a unified audit record will be
created in the `UNIFIED_AUDIT_TRAIL` view. If a single SQL statement or
operation satisfies multiple enabled policies, then only one unified audit
record will be created and all satisfied audit policy names will appear in a
comma-separated list in the `UNIFIED_AUDIT_POLICIES` column of the
`UNIFIED_AUDIT_TRAIL` view.

See Also:

  * [CREATE AUDIT POLICY (Unified Auditing)](CREATE-AUDIT-POLICY-Unified-Auditing.md#GUID-8D6961FB-2E50-46F5-81F7-9AEA314FC693)

  * Oracle Database Reference for more information on the [`AUDIT_UNIFIED_POLICIES`](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN29157), [`AUDIT_UNIFIED_ENABLED_POLICIES`](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN29158), and [`UNIFIED_AUDIT_TRAIL`](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN29162) views 

BY | EXCEPT

Specify the `BY` clause to enable `policy` for only the specified users.

Specify the `EXCEPT` clause to enable `policy` for all users except the
specified users.

If you omit the `BY` and `EXCEPT` clauses and the `by_users_with_roles`
clause, then Oracle Database enables `policy` for all users.

If `policy` is a common unified audit policy, then `user` must be a common
user. If `policy` is a local unified audit policy, then `user` must be a
common user or a local user in the container to which you are connected.

Notes on the BY and EXCEPT Clauses

The following notes apply to the `BY` and `EXCEPT` clauses:

  * If multiple `AUDIT` ... `BY` ... statements are specified for the same unified audit policy, then the policy is enabled for the union of the users specified in each statement. 

  * If multiple `AUDIT` ... `EXCEPT` ... statements are specified for the same unified audit policy, then only the most recently specified statement takes effect. That is, the policy is enabled for all users except the users specified in the most recent `AUDIT` ... `EXCEPT` ... statement. 

  * If a policy is enabled using the `BY` clause and you would like to instead enable it using the `EXCEPT` clause, then you must first use the `NOAUDIT` ... `BY` ... statement to disable the policy for all users for whom the policy is currently enabled, and then enable the policy with the `AUDIT` ... `EXCEPT` ... statement. 

  * If a policy is enabled using the `EXCEPT` clause and you would like to instead enable it using the `BY` clause, then you must first use the `NOAUDIT` statement to disable the audit policy. Note that you cannot specify the `EXCEPT` clause with the `NOAUDIT` statement. You can then enable the policy with the `AUDIT` ... `BY` ... statement. 

Restriction on the BY and EXCEPT Clauses

You cannot specify an `AUDIT` ... `BY` ... statement and an `AUDIT` ...
`EXCEPT` ... statement for the same unified audit policy. If you attempt to do
so, then an error occurs.

by_users_with_roles

Specify this clause to enable `policy` for users who have been directly or
indirectly granted the specified roles. If you subsequently grant one of the
roles to an additional user or to a role which is directly or indirectly
granted to a user, then the policy automatically applies to that user. If you
subsequently revoke one of the roles from a user or from a role which was
directly or indirectly granted to a role or a user, then the policy no longer
applies to that user.

When you are connected to a CDB, if `policy` is a common unified audit policy,
then `role` must be a common role. If `policy` is a local unified audit
policy, then `role` must be a common role or a local role in the container to
which you are connected.

Enabling a Local Audit Policy on Roles

Local audit policy can be enabled on local roles as well as on common roles.
When a local audit policy is enabled on a common role, it generates audit
records when a common role is granted to user locally or commonly in the
container.

Enabling a Common Audit Policy on Roles

Common audit policy can only be enabled on common roles. When a common audit
policy is enabled on a common role, it generates audit records when a common
role is granted to an user commonly or locally in the ROOT container.

WHENEVER [NOT] SUCCESSFUL

Specify `WHENEVER` `SUCCESSFUL` to audit only SQL statements and operations
that succeed.

Specify `WHENEVER` `NOT` `SUCCESSFUL` to audit only SQL statements and
operations that fail or result in errors.

If you omit this clause, then Oracle Database performs the audit regardless of
success or failure.

CONTEXT Clause

Specify the `CONTEXT` clause to include the values of context attributes in
audit records.

  * For `namespace`, specify the context namespace. 

  * For `attribute`, specify one or more context attributes whose values you want to include in audit records. 

  * Use the optional `BY` `user` clause to include the values of the context attributes only in audit records for events executed by the specified users. If you omit the `BY` clause, then the values of the context attributes are included in all audit records. 

If you specify the `CONTEXT` clause when the current container is the root of
a CDB, then the values of context attributes will be included in audit records
only for events executed in the root. If you specify the optional `BY` clause,
then `user` must be a common user.

If you specify the `CONTEXT` clause when the current container is a pluggable
database (PDB), then the values of context attributes will be included in
audit records only for events executed in that PDB. If you specify the
optional `BY` clause, then `user` must be a common user or a local user in
that PDB.

You can find the application context attributes that are configured to be
captured in the audit trail by querying the `AUDIT_UNIFIED_CONTEXTS` view.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN29159) for more information on the
`AUDIT_UNIFIED_CONTEXTS` view

Examples

The following examples enable unified audit policies that were created in the
`CREATE` `AUDIT` `POLICY` "[Examples](CREATE-AUDIT-POLICY-Unified-
Auditing.md#GUID-8D6961FB-2E50-46F5-81F7-9AEA314FC693__BGEGDCFA)".

Enabling a Unified Audit Policy for All Users: Example

The following statement enables unified audit policy `table_pol` for all
users:

    
    
    AUDIT POLICY table_pol;
    

The following statement verifies that `table_pol` is enabled for all users:

    
    
    SELECT policy_name, enabled_option, entity_name
      FROM audit_unified_enabled_policies
      WHERE policy_name = 'TABLE_POL';
     
    POLICY_NAME  ENABLED_OPTION  ENTITY_NAME
    -----------  -----------  ---------
    TABLE_POL    BY           ALL USERS

Enabling a Unified Audit Policy for Specific Users: Examples

The following statement enables unified audit policy `dml_pol` for only users
`hr` and `sh`:

    
    
    AUDIT POLICY dml_pol BY hr, sh;
    

The following statement verifies that `dml_pol` is enabled for only users `hr`
and `sh`:

    
    
    SELECT policy_name, enabled_option, entity_name
      FROM audit_unified_enabled_policies
      WHERE policy_name = 'DML_POL'
      ORDER BY user_name;
     
    POLICY_NAME  ENABLED_OPTION  ENTITY_NAME
    -----------  -----------  ---------
    DML_POL      BY           HR
    DML_POL      BY           SH
    

The following statement enables unified audit policy `read_dir_pol` for all
users except `hr`:

    
    
    AUDIT POLICY read_dir_pol EXCEPT hr;
    

The following statement verifies that `read_dir_pol` is enabled for all users
except `hr`:

    
    
    SELECT policy_name, enabled_option, entity_name
      FROM audit_unified_enabled_policies
      WHERE policy_name = 'READ_DIR_POL';
     
    POLICY_NAME   ENABLED_OPTION  ENTITY_NAME
    ------------  -----------  ---------
    READ_DIR_POL  EXCEPT       HR
    

The following statement enables unified audit policy `security_pol` for user
`hr` and audits only the SQL statements and operations that fail:

    
    
    AUDIT POLICY security_pol BY hr WHENEVER NOT SUCCESSFUL;
    

The following statement verifies that `security_pol` is enabled for only user
`hr` and that only the SQL statements and operations that fail will be
audited:

    
    
    SELECT policy_name, enabled_option, entity_name, success, failure
      FROM audit_unified_enabled_policies
      WHERE policy_name = 'SECURITY_POL';
     
    POLICY_NAME   ENABLED_OPTION           ENTITY_NAME   SUCCESS  FAILURE
    ------------  --------------------  ----------  -------  -------
    SECURITY_POL  BY                    HR          NO       YES

Including Values of Context Attributes in Audit Records: Example

The following statement instructs the database to include the values of
namespace `USERENV` attributes `CURRENT_USER` and `DB_NAME` in all audit
records for user `hr`:

    
    
    AUDIT CONTEXT NAMESPACE userenv
      ATTRIBUTES current_user, db_name
      BY hr;


[← Previous](AUDIT-Traditional-Auditing.md)

[Next →](CALL.md)
