[Previous](Automatic-Locks-in-DML-Operations.md) [Next](Manual-Data-
Locking.md) JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Automatic and Manual Locking Mechanisms During SQL Operations](Automatic-and-Manual-Locking-Mechanisms-During-SQL-Operations.md)
  3. Automatic Locks in DDL Operations

## Automatic Locks in DDL Operations

A data dictionary (DDL) lock protects the definition of a schema object while
it is acted upon or referred to by an ongoing DDL operation. For example, when
a user creates a procedure, Oracle Database automatically acquires DDL locks
for all schema objects referenced in the procedure definition. The DDL locks
prevent these objects from being altered or dropped before procedure
compilation is complete.

Oracle Database acquires a DDL lock automatically on behalf of any DDL
transaction requiring it. Users cannot explicitly request DDL locks. Only
individual schema objects that are modified or referenced are locked during
DDL operations. The whole data dictionary is never locked.

DDL operations also acquire DML locks on the schema object to be modified.

### Exclusive DDL Locks

An exclusive DDL lock prevents other session from obtaining a DDL or DML lock.

Most DDL operations require exclusive DDL locks to prevent destructive
interference with other DDL operations that might modify or reference the same
schema object. For example, a `DROP TABLE` operation is not allowed to drop a
table while an `ALTER TABLE` operation is adding a column to it, and vice
versa. However, a query against the table is not blocked.

Exclusive DDL locks last for the duration of DDL statement execution and
automatic commit. During the acquisition of an exclusive DDL lock, if another
DDL lock is already held on the schema object by another operation, then the
acquisition waits until the older DDL lock is released and then proceeds.

### Share DDL Locks

A share DDL lock for a resource prevents destructive interference with
conflicting DDL operations, but allows data concurrency for similar DDL
operations.

For example, when a `CREATE` `PROCEDURE` statement is run, the containing
transaction acquires share DDL locks for all referenced tables. Other
transactions can concurrently create procedures that reference the same tables
and acquire concurrent share DDL locks on the same tables, but no transaction
can acquire an exclusive DDL lock on any referenced table.

A share DDL lock lasts for the duration of DDL statement execution and
automatic commit. Thus, a transaction holding a share DDL lock is guaranteed
that the definition of the referenced schema object is constant for the
duration of the transaction.

### Breakable Parse Locks

A parse lock is held by a SQL statement or PL/SQL program unit for each schema
object that it references. Parse locks are acquired so that the associated
shared SQL area can be invalidated if a referenced object is altered or
dropped. A parse lock is called a breakable parse lock because it does not
disallow any DDL operation and can be broken to allow conflicting DDL
operations.

A parse lock is acquired in the shared pool during the parse phase of SQL
statement execution. The lock is held as long as the shared SQL area for that
statement remains in the shared pool.


[← Previous](Automatic-Locks-in-DDL-Operations.md)

[Next →](Manual-Data-Locking.md)
