[Previous](BIN_TO_NUM.md) [Next](BIT_AND_AGG.md) JavaScript must be
enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. BITAND 

## BITAND

Syntax

![Description of bitand.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/bitand.gif)  
[Description of the illustration bitand.eps](img_text/bitand.md)

Purpose

The `BITAND` function treats its inputs and its output as vectors of bits; the
output is the bitwise `AND` of the inputs.

The types of `expr1` and `expr2` are `NUMBER`, and the result is of type
`NUMBER`. If either argument to `BITAND` is `NULL`, the result is `NULL`.

The arguments must be in the range -(2(n-1)) .. ((2(n-1))-1). If an argument
is out of this range, the result is undefined.

The result is computed in several steps. First, each argument A is replaced
with the value `SIGN(A)*FLOOR(ABS(A))`. This conversion has the effect of
truncating each argument towards zero. Next, each argument A (which must now
be an integer value) is converted to an n-bit two's complement binary integer
value. The two bit values are combined using a bitwise `AND` operation.
Finally, the resulting n-bit two's complement value is converted back to
`NUMBER`.

Notes on the BITAND Function

  * The current implementation of `BITAND` defines `n` = 128. 

  * PL/SQL supports an overload of `BITAND` for which the types of the inputs and of the result are all `BINARY_INTEGER` and for which `n` = 32. 

Examples

The following example performs an `AND` operation on the numbers 6 (binary
1,1,0) and 3 (binary 0,1,1):

    
    
    SELECT BITAND(6,3)
      FROM DUAL;
    
    BITAND(6,3)
    -----------
              2
    

This is the same as the following example, which shows the binary values of 6
and 3. The `BITAND` function operates only on the significant digits of the
binary values:

    
    
    SELECT BITAND(
        BIN_TO_NUM(1,1,0),
        BIN_TO_NUM(0,1,1)) "Binary"
      FROM DUAL;
     
        Binary
    ----------
             2
    

Refer to the example for [BIN_TO_NUM](BIN_TO_NUM.md#GUID-
BF061402-D7F0-4557-B7D4-1CEE6E80F3B2) for information on encoding multiple
values in a single column value.

The following example supposes that the `order_status` column of the sample
table `oe.orders` encodes several choices as individual bits within a single
numeric value. For example, an order still in the warehouse is represented by
a binary value 001 (decimal 1). An order being sent by ground transportation
is represented by a binary value 010 (decimal 2). An insured package is
represented by a binary value 100 (decimal 4). The example uses the `DECODE`
function to provide two values for each of the three bits in the
`order_status` value, one value if the bit is turned on and one if it is
turned off.

    
    
    SELECT order_id, customer_id, order_status,
        DECODE(BITAND(order_status, 1), 1, 'Warehouse', 'PostOffice') "Location",
        DECODE(BITAND(order_status, 2), 2, 'Ground', 'Air') "Method",
        DECODE(BITAND(order_status, 4), 4, 'Insured', 'Certified') "Receipt"
      FROM orders
      WHERE sales_rep_id = 160
      ORDER BY order_id;
    
      ORDER_ID CUSTOMER_ID ORDER_STATUS Location   Method Receipt
    ---------- ----------- ------------ ---------- ------ ---------
          2416         104            6 PostOffice Ground Insured
          2419         107            3 Warehouse  Ground Certified
          2420         108            2 PostOffice Ground Certified
          2423         145            3 Warehouse  Ground Certified
          2441         106            5 Warehouse  Air    Insured
          2455         145            7 Warehouse  Ground Insured
    

For the `Location` column, `BITAND` first compares `order_status` with 1
(binary 001). Only significant bit values are compared, so any binary value
with a 1 in its rightmost bit (any odd number) will evaluate positively and
return 1. Even numbers will return 0. The `DECODE` function compares the value
returned by `BITAND` with 1. If they are both 1, then the location is
"Warehouse". If they are different, then the location is "PostOffice".

The `Method` and `Receipt` columns are calculated similarly. For `Method`,
`BITAND` performs the `AND` operation on `order_status` and 2 (binary 010).
For `Receipt`, `BITAND` performs the `AND` operation on `order_status` and 4
(binary 100).


[← Previous](BIN_TO_NUM.md)

[Next →](BIT_AND_AGG.md)
