[Previous](CALL.md) [Next](SQL-Statements-COMMIT-to-CREATE-JAVA.md)
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: ALTER SYNONYM to COMMENT](SQL-Statements-ALTER-SYNONYM-to-COMMENT.md)
  3. COMMENT 

## COMMENT

Purpose

Use the `COMMENT` statement to add to the data dictionary a comment about a
table or table column, unified audit policy, edition, indextype, materialized
view, mining model, operator, or view.

To drop a comment from the database, set it to the empty string ' '.

See Also:

  * "[Comments](Comments.md#GUID-79B6B8FD-2DD4-471E-B9E0-0C8D20B058F6)" for more information on associating comments with SQL statements and schema objects 

  * [Oracle Database Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN002) for information on the data dictionary views that display comments 

Prerequisites

The object about which you are adding a comment must be in your own schema or:

  * To add a comment to a table, view, or materialized view, you must have `COMMENT` `ANY` `TABLE` system privilege. 

  * To add a comment to a unified audit policy, you must have the `AUDIT` `SYSTEM` system privilege or the `AUDIT_ADMIN` role. 

  * To add a comment to an edition, you must have the `CREATE` `ANY` `EDITION` system privilege, granted either directly or through a role. 

  * To add a comment to an indextype, you must have the `CREATE` `ANY` `INDEXTYPE` system privilege. 

  * To add a comment to a mining model, you must have the `COMMENT` `ANY` `MINING` `MODEL` system privilege. 

  * To add a comment to an operator, you must have the `CREATE` `ANY` `OPERATOR` system privilege. 

Syntax

comment::=

![Description of comment.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/comment.gif)  
[Description of the illustration comment.eps](img_text/comment.md)

Semantics

AUDIT POLICY Clause

Specify the name of the unified audit policy to be commented.

You can view the comments on a particular unified audit policy by querying the
`AUDIT_UNIFIED_POLICY_COMMENTS` data dictionary view.

COLUMN Clause

Specify the name of the column of a table, view, or materialized view to be
commented. If you omit `schema`, then Oracle Database assumes the table, view,
or materialized view is in your own schema.

You can view the comments on a particular table or column by querying the data
dictionary views `USER_TAB_COMMENTS`, `DBA_TAB_COMMENTS`, or
`ALL_TAB_COMMENTS` or `USER_COL_COMMENTS`, `DBA_COL_COMMENTS`, or
`ALL_COL_COMMENTS`.

EDITION Clause

Specify the name of an existing edition to be commented.

You can query the data dictionary view `ALL_EDITION_COMMENTS` to view comments
associated with editions that are accessible to the current user. You can
query `DBA_EDITION_COMMENTS` to view comments associated with all editions in
the database.

TABLE Clause

Specify the schema and name of the table or materialized view to be commented.
If you omit `schema`, then Oracle Database assumes the table or materialized
view is in your own schema.

Note:

In earlier releases, you could use this clause to create a comment on a
materialized view. You should now use the `COMMENT` `ON` `MATERIALIZED` `VIEW`
clause for materialized views.

INDEXTYPE Clause

Specify the name of the indextype to be commented. If you omit `schema`, then
Oracle Database assumes the indextype is in your own schema.

You can view the comments on a particular indextype by querying the data
dictionary views `USER_INDEXTYPE_COMMENTS`, `DBA_INDEXTYPE_COMMENTS`, or
`ALL_INDEXTYPE_COMMENTS`.

MATERIALIZED VIEW Clause

Specify the name of the materialized view to be commented. If you omit
`schema`, then Oracle Database assumes the materialized view is in your own
schema.

You can view the comments on a particular materialized view by querying the
data dictionary views `USER_MVIEW_COMMENTS`, `DBA_MVIEW_COMMENTS`, or
`ALL_MVIEW_COMMENTS`.

MINING MODEL

Specify the name of the mining model to be commented.

You can view the comments on a particular mining model by querying the
`COMMENTS` column of the data dictionary views `USER_MINING_MODELS`,
`DBA_MINING_MODELS`, or `ALL_MINING_MODELS`.

OPERATOR Clause

Specify the name of the operator to be commented. If you omit `schema`, then
Oracle Database assumes the operator is in your own schema.

You can view the comments on a particular operator by querying the data
dictionary views `USER_OPERATOR_COMMENTS`, `DBA_OPERATOR_COMMENTS`, or
`ALL_OPERATOR_COMMENTS`.

IS 'string'

Specify the text of the comment. Refer to "[Text
Literals](Literals.md#GUID-1824CBAA-6E16-4921-B2A6-112FB02248DA)" for a
syntax description of `'string'`.

Examples

Creating Comments: Example

To insert an explanatory remark on the `job_id` column of the `employees`
table, you might issue the following statement:

    
    
    COMMENT ON COLUMN employees.job_id 
       IS 'abbreviated job title';
    

To drop this comment from the database, issue the following statement:

    
    
    COMMENT ON COLUMN employees.job_id IS ''; 


[← Previous](CALL.md)

[Next →](SQL-Statements-COMMIT-to-CREATE-JAVA.md)
