[Previous](CONCAT.md) [Next](CORR.md) JavaScript must be enabled to
correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. CONVERT 

## CONVERT

Syntax

![Description of convert.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/convert.gif)  
[Description of the illustration convert.eps](img_text/convert.md)

Purpose

`CONVERT` converts a character string from one character set to another.

  * The `char` argument is the value to be converted. It can be any of the data types `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `NCHAR`, `NVARCHAR2`, `CLOB`, or `NCLOB`. 

  * The `dest_char_set` argument is the name of the character set to which `char` is converted. 

  * The `source_char_set` argument is the name of the character set in which `char` is stored in the database. The default value is the database character set. 

The return value for `CHAR` and `VARCHAR2` is `VARCHAR2`. For `NCHAR` and
`NVARCHAR2`, it is `NVARCHAR2`. For `CLOB`, it is `CLOB`, and for `NCLOB`, it
is `NCLOB`.

Both the destination and source character set arguments can be either literals
or columns containing the name of the character set.

For complete correspondence in character conversion, it is essential that the
destination character set contains a representation of all the characters
defined in the source character set. Where a character does not exist in the
destination character set, a replacement character appears. Replacement
characters can be defined as part of a character set definition.

Note:

Oracle discourages the use of the `CONVERT` function in the current Oracle
Database release. The return value of `CONVERT` has a character data type, so
it should be either in the database character set or in the national character
set, depending on the data type. Any `dest_char_set` that is not one of these
two character sets is unsupported. The `char` argument and the
`source_char_set` have the same requirements. Therefore, the only practical
use of the function is to correct data that has been stored in a wrong
character set.

Values that are in neither the database nor the national character set should
be processed and stored as `RAW` or `BLOB`. Procedures in the PL/SQL packages
`UTL_RAW` and `UTL_I18N`âfor example, `UTL_RAW.CONVERT`âallow limited
processing of such values. Procedures accepting a `RAW` argument in the
packages `UTL_FILE`, `UTL_TCP`, `UTL_HTTP`, and `UTL_SMTP` can be used to
output the processed data.

See Also:

Appendix C in [Oracle Database Globalization Support
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG-GUID-AFCE41ED-775B-4A00-AF38-C436776AE0C5) for the
collation derivation rules, which define the collation assigned to the
character return value of `CONVERT`

Examples

The following example illustrates character set conversion by converting a
Latin-1 string to ASCII. The result is the same as importing the same string
from a WE8ISO8859P1 database to a US7ASCII database.

    
    
    SELECT CONVERT('Ã Ã Ã Ã Ã A B C D E ', 'US7ASCII', 'WE8ISO8859P1') 
       FROM DUAL; 
    
    CONVERT('ÃÃÃÃÃABCDE' 
    --------------------- 
    A E I ? ? A B C D E ? 
    

You can query the `V$NLS_VALID_VALUES` view to get a listing of valid
character sets, as follows:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM V$NLS_VALID_VALUES WHERE parameter = 'CHARACTERSET';

See Also:

[Oracle Database Globalization Support
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG584) for the list of character sets that Oracle
Database supports and [Oracle Database
Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN30160) for information on the `V$NLS_VALID_VALUES`
view


[← Previous](CONCAT.md)

[Next →](CORR.md)
