[Previous](CREATE-EDITION.md) [Next](CREATE-FUNCTION.md) JavaScript must
be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ SQL Statements: COMMIT to CREATE JAVA](SQL-Statements-COMMIT-to-CREATE-JAVA.md)
  3. CREATE FLASHBACK ARCHIVE 

## CREATE FLASHBACK ARCHIVE

Purpose

Use the `CREATE` `FLASHBACK` `ARCHIVE` statement to create a flashback
archive, which provides the ability to automatically track and archive
transactional data changes to specified database objects. A flashback archive
consists of multiple tablespaces and stores historic data from all
transactions against tracked tables. The data is stored in internal history
tables.

Flashback data archives retain historical data for the time duration specified
using the `RETENTION` parameter. Historical data can be queried using the
Flashback Query `AS` `OF` clause. Archived historic data that has aged beyond
the specified retention period is automatically purged.

Flashback data archives retain historical data across data definition language
(DDL) changes to tables enabled for flashback archive. Flashback data archives
supports many common DDL statements, including some DDL statements that alter
table definitions or incur data movement. DDL statements that are not
supported result in error ORA-55610.

See Also:

  * [Oracle Database Development Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADFNS01011) for general information on using Flashback Time Travel 

  * The `CREATE` `TABLE` [flashback_archive_clause](CREATE-TABLE.md#GUID-F9CE0CC3-13AE-4744-A43C-EAC7A71AAAB6__BABGIIIA) for information on designating a table as a tracked table 

  * [ALTER FLASHBACK ARCHIVE](ALTER-FLASHBACK-ARCHIVE.md#GUID-285814C9-06ED-4BDB-BB19-E2BA6505C850) for information on changing the quota and retention attributes of the flashback archive, as well as adding or changing tablespace storage for the flashback archive 

Prerequisites

You must have the `FLASHBACK` `ARCHIVE` `ADMINISTER` system privilege to
create a flashback archive. In addition, you must have the `CREATE`
`TABLESPACE` system privilege to create a flashback archive, as well as
sufficient quota on the tablespace in which the historical information will
reside. To designate a flashback archive as the system default flashback
archive, you must be logged in as `SYSDBA`.

Syntax

create_flashback_archive::=

![Description of create_flashback_archive.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/create_flashback_archive.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
create_flashback_archive.eps](img_text/create_flashback_archive.md)

flashback_archive_quota::=

![Description of flashback_archive_quota.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/flashback_archive_quota.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
flashback_archive_quota.eps](img_text/flashback_archive_quota.md)

flashback_archive_retention::=

![Description of flashback_archive_retention.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/flashback_archive_retention.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
flashback_archive_retention.eps](img_text/flashback_archive_retention.md)

Semantics

DEFAULT

You must be logged in as `SYSDBA` to specify `DEFAULT`. Use this clause to
designate this flashback archive as the default flashback archive for the
database. When a `CREATE` `TABLE` or `ALTER` `TABLE` statement specifies the
`flashback_archive_clause` without specifying a flashback archive name, the
database uses the default flashback archive to store data from that table.

You cannot specify this clause if a default flashback archive already exists.
However, you can replace an existing default flashback archive using the
`ALTER` `FLASHBACK` `ARCHIVE` ... `SET` `DEFAULT` clause.

See Also:

The `CREATE` `TABLE` [flashback_archive_clause](CREATE-
TABLE.md#GUID-F9CE0CC3-13AE-4744-A43C-EAC7A71AAAB6__BABGIIIA) for more
information

flashback_archive

Specify the name of the flashback archive. The name must satisfy the
requirements specified in "[Database Object Naming Rules](Database-Object-
Names-and-Qualifiers.md#GUID-75337742-67FD-4EC0-985F-741C93D918DA)".

TABLESPACE Clause

Specify the tablespace where the archived data for this flashback archive is
to be stored. You can specify only one tablespace with this clause. However,
you can subsequently add tablespaces to the flashback archive with an `ALTER`
`FLASHBACK` `ARCHIVE` statement.

flashback_archive_quota

Specify the amount of space in the initial tablespace to be reserved for the
archived data. If the space for archiving in a flashback archive becomes full,
then DML operations on tracked tables that use this flashback archive will
fail. The database issues an out-of-space alert when the content of the
flashback archive is 90% of the specified quota, to allow time to purge old
data or add additional quota. If you omit this clause, then the flashback
archive has unlimited quota on the specified tablespace.

[NO] OPTIMIZE DATA

Specify `OPTIMIZE` `DATA` to enable optimization for flashback archive history
tables. This instructs the database to optimize the storage of data in history
tables using any of the following features: Advanced Row Compression, Advanced
LOB Compression, Advanced LOB Deduplication, segment-level compression
tiering, and row-level compression tiering. To specify this clause, you must
have a license for the Advanced Compression option.

Specify `NO` `OPTIMIZE` `DATA` to instruct the database not to optimize the
storage of data in history tables. This is the default.

flashback_archive_retention

Specify the length of time in months, days, or years that the archived data
should be retained in the flashback archive. If the length of time causes the
flashback archive to become full, then the database responds as described in
[flashback_archive_quota](CREATE-FLASHBACK-
ARCHIVE.md#GUID-9E821EC5-8350-4729-85FE-2188EBB4139B__BABJAHFE).

Examples

The following statement creates two flashback archives for testing purposes.
The first is designated as the default for the database. For both of them, the
space quota is 1 megabyte, and the archive retention is one day.

    
    
    CREATE FLASHBACK ARCHIVE DEFAULT test_archive1
       TABLESPACE example
       QUOTA 1 M
       RETENTION 1 DAY;
    
    CREATE FLASHBACK ARCHIVE test_archive2
       TABLESPACE example
       QUOTA 1 M
       RETENTION 1 DAY;
    

The next statement alters the default flashback archive to extend the
retention period to 1 month:

    
    
    ALTER FLASHBACK ARCHIVE test_archive1
       MODIFY RETENTION 1 MONTH;
    

The next statement specifies tracking for the `oe.customers` table. The
flashback archive is not specified, so data will be archived in the default
flashback archive, `test_archive1`:

    
    
    ALTER TABLE oe.customers
       FLASHBACK ARCHIVE;
    

The next statement specifies tracking for the `oe.orders` table. In this case,
data will be archived in the specified flashback archive, `test_archive2`:

    
    
    ALTER TABLE oe.orders
       FLASHBACK ARCHIVE test_archive2;
    

The next statement drops `test_archive2` flashback archive:

    
    
    DROP FLASHBACK ARCHIVE test_archive2;


[← Previous](CREATE-EDITION.md)

[Next →](CREATE-FUNCTION.md)
