[Previous](CREATE-SPFILE.md) [Next](CREATE-TABLE.md) JavaScript must be
enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: CREATE SEQUENCE to DROP CLUSTER](SQL-Statements-CREATE-SEQUENCE-to-DROP-CLUSTER.md)
  3. CREATE SYNONYM 

## CREATE SYNONYM

Purpose

Use the `CREATE` `SYNONYM` statement to create a synonym, which is an
alternative name for a table, view, sequence, operator, procedure, stored
function, package, materialized view, Java class schema object, user-defined
object type, or another synonym. A synonym places a dependency on its target
object and becomes invalid if the target object is changed or dropped.

Synonyms provide both data independence and location transparency. Synonyms
permit applications to function without modification regardless of which user
owns the table or view and regardless of which database holds the table or
view. However, synonyms are not a substitute for privileges on database
objects. Appropriate privileges must be granted to a user before the user can
use the synonym.

You can refer to synonyms in the following DML statements: `SELECT`, `INSERT`,
`UPDATE`, `DELETE`, `FLASHBACK` `TABLE`, `EXPLAIN` `PLAN`, `LOCK` `TABLE`,
`MERGE`, and `CALL` .

You can refer to synonyms in the following DDL statements: `AUDIT`, `NOAUDIT`,
`GRANT`, `REVOKE`, and `COMMENT`.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Concepts](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=CNCPT711) for general information on synonyms

Prerequisites

To create a private synonym in your own schema, you must have the `CREATE`
`SYNONYM` system privilege.

To create a private synonym in another user's schema, you must have the
`CREATE` `ANY` `SYNONYM` system privilege.

To create a `PUBLIC` synonym, you must have the `CREATE` `PUBLIC` `SYNONYM`
system privilege.

Syntax

create_synonym::=

![Description of create_synonym.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/create_synonym.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
create_synonym.eps](img_text/create_synonym.md)

Semantics

OR REPLACE

Specify `OR` `REPLACE` to re-create the synonym if it already exists. Use this
clause to change the definition of an existing synonym without first dropping
it.

Restriction on Replacing a Synonym

You cannot use the `OR` `REPLACE` clause for a type synonym that has any
dependent tables or dependent valid user-defined object types.

IF NOT EXISTS

Specifying `IF NOT EXISTS` has the following effects:

  * If the synonym does not exist, a new synonym is created at the end of the statement.

  * If the synonym exists, this is the synonym you have at the end of the statement. A new one is not created because the older one is detected.

You can have one of `OR REPLACE` or `IF NOT EXISTS` in a statement at a time.
Using both `OR REPLACE` with `IF NOT EXISTS` in the very same statement
results in the following error: `ORA-11541: REPLACE and IF NOT EXISTS cannot
coexist in the same DDL statement`.

Using `IF EXISTS` with `CREATE` results in `ORA-11543: Incorrect IF NOT EXISTS
clause for CREATE statement`.

[ EDITIONABLE | NONEDITIONABLE ]

Use these clauses to specify whether the synonym is an editioned or
noneditioned object if editioning is enabled for the schema object type
`SYNONYM` in `schema`. For private synonyms, the default is `EDITIONABLE`. For
public synonyms, the default is `NONEDITIONABLE`. For information about
editioned and noneditioned objects, see [Oracle Database Development
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADFNS99923).

PUBLIC

Specify `PUBLIC` to create a public synonym. Public synonyms are accessible to
all users. However each user must have appropriate privileges on the
underlying object in order to use the synonym.

When resolving references to an object, Oracle Database uses a public synonym
only if the object is not prefaced by a schema and is not followed by a
database link.

If you omit this clause, then the synonym is private. A private synonym name
must be unique in its schema. A private synonym is accessible to users other
than the owner only if those users have appropriate privileges on the
underlying database object and specify the schema along with the synonym name.

Notes on Public Synonyms

The following notes apply to public synonyms:

  * If you create a public synonym and it subsequently has dependent tables or dependent valid user-defined object types, then you cannot create another database object of the same name as the synonym in the same schema as the dependent objects. 

  * Take care not to create a public synonym with the same name as an existing schema. If you do so, then all PL/SQL units that use that name will be invalidated.

schema

Specify the schema to contain the synonym. If you omit `schema`, then Oracle
Database creates the synonym in your own schema. You cannot specify a schema
for the synonym if you have specified `PUBLIC`.

synonym

Specify the name of the synonym to be created. The name must satisfy the
requirements listed in "[Database Object Naming Rules](Database-Object-Names-
and-Qualifiers.md#GUID-75337742-67FD-4EC0-985F-741C93D918DA)".

Note:

The maximum length of a synonym name is subject to the following rules:

  * If the `COMPATIBLE` initialization parameter is set to a value of `12`.`2` or higher, then the maximum length of a synonym name is 128 bytes. The database will allow you to create and drop synonyms of length 129 to 4000 bytes. However, unless these longer synonym names represent a Java name they will not work in any other SQL command. 

  * If the `COMPATIBLE` initialization parameter is set to a value lower than `12`.`2`, then the maximum length of a synonym name is 30 bytes. The database will allow you to create and drop synonyms of length 31 to 128 bytes. However, unless these longer synonym names represent a Java name they will not work in any other SQL command. 

The longer synonym names are transformed into obscure shorter strings for
storage in the data dictionary.

See Also:

"[CREATE SYNONYM: Examples](CREATE-
SYNONYM.md#GUID-A806C82F-1171-478E-A910-F9C6C42739B2__I2153082)" and
"[Oracle Database Resolution of Synonyms: Example](CREATE-
SYNONYM.md#GUID-A806C82F-1171-478E-A910-F9C6C42739B2__I2102145)"

SHARING

This clause applies only when creating a synonym in an application root. This
type of synonym is called an application common object and it can be shared
with the application PDBs that belong to the application root. To determine
how the synonym is shared, specify one of the following sharing attributes:

  * `METADATA` \- A metadata link shares the synonymâs metadata, but its data is unique to each container. This type of synonym is referred to as a metadata-linked application common object. 

  * `NONE` \- The synonym is not shared. 

If you omit this clause, then the database uses the value of the
`DEFAULT_SHARING` initialization parameter to determine the sharing attribute
of the synonym. If the `DEFAULT_SHARING` initialization parameter does not
have a value, then the default is `METADATA`.

You cannot change the sharing attribute of a synonym after it is created.

See Also:

  * [Oracle Database Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN-GUID-15D1391E-7FAB-46A8-9F1F-9F59045B71EC) for more information on the `DEFAULT_SHARING` initialization parameter 

  * [Oracle Database Administratorâs Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN-GUID-388FB5AD-A2DE-4951-833B-A98239F99F50) for complete information on creating application common objects 

FOR Clause

Specify the object for which the synonym is created. The schema object for
which you are creating the synonym can be of the following types:

  * Table or object table

  * View or object view

  * Sequence

  * Stored procedure, function, or package

  * Materialized view

  * Java class schema object

  * User-defined object type

  * Synonym

The schema object need not currently exist and you need not have privileges to
access the object.

Restriction on the FOR Clause

The schema object cannot be contained in a package.

schema

Specify the schema in which the object resides. If you do not qualify object
with `schema`, then the database assumes that the schema object is in your own
schema.

If you are creating a synonym for a procedure or function on a remote
database, then you must specify `schema` in this `CREATE` statement.
Alternatively, you can create a local public synonym on the database where the
object resides. However, the database link must then be included in all
subsequent calls to the procedure or function.

dblink

You can specify a complete or partial database link to create a synonym for a
schema object on a remote database where the object is located. If you specify
`dblink` and omit `schema`, then the synonym refers to an object in the schema
specified by the database link. Oracle recommends that you specify the schema
containing the object in the remote database.

If you omit `dblink`, then Oracle Database assumes the object is located on
the local database.

Restriction on Database Links

You cannot specify `dblink` for a Java class synonym.

See Also:

  * "[References to Objects in Remote Databases](Syntax-for-Schema-Objects-and-Parts-in-SQL-Statements.md#GUID-61D0B206-A5EA-473F-AD04-7067D6E3914C)" for more information on referring to database links 

  * [CREATE DATABASE LINK](CREATE-DATABASE-LINK.md#GUID-D966642A-B19E-449D-9968-1121AF06D793) for more information on creating database links 

Examples

CREATE SYNONYM: Examples

To define the synonym `offices` for the table `locations` in the schema `hr`,
issue the following statement:

    
    
    CREATE SYNONYM offices 
       FOR hr.locations;
    

To create a `PUBLIC` synonym for the `employees` table in the schema `hr` on
the `remote` database, you could issue the following statement:

    
    
    CREATE PUBLIC SYNONYM emp_table 
       FOR hr.employees@remote.us.example.com;
    

A synonym may have the same name as the underlying object, provided the
underlying object is contained in another schema.

Oracle Database Resolution of Synonyms: Example

Oracle Database attempts to resolve references to objects at the schema level
before resolving them at the `PUBLIC` synonym level. For example, the schemas
`oe` and `sh` both contain tables named `customers`. In the next example, user
`SYSTEM` creates a `PUBLIC` synonym named `customers` for `oe.customers`:

    
    
    CREATE PUBLIC SYNONYM customers FOR oe.customers;
    

If the user `sh` then issues the following statement, then the database
returns the count of rows from `sh.customers`:

    
    
    SELECT COUNT(*) FROM customers;
    

To retrieve the count of rows from `oe.customers`, the user `sh` must preface
`customers` with the schema name. (The user `sh` must have select permission
on `oe.customers` as well.)

    
    
    SELECT COUNT(*) FROM oe.customers;
    

If the user `hr`'s schema does not contain an object named `customers`, and if
`hr` has select permission on `oe.customers`, then `hr` can access the
`customers` table in `oe`'s schema by using the public synonym `customers`:

    
    
    SELECT COUNT(*) FROM customers;
    


[← Previous](CREATE-SPFILE.md)

[Next →](CREATE-TABLE.md)
