[Previous](CREATE-PROCEDURE.md) [Next](create-property-graph.md)
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ SQL Statements: CREATE JSON RELATIONAL DUALITY VIEW to CREATE SCHEMA](SQL-Statements-CREATE-LIBRARY-to-CREATE-SCHEMA.md)
  3. CREATE PROFILE 

## CREATE PROFILE

Note:

Oracle recommends that you use the Database Resource Manager rather than this
SQL statement to establish resource limits. The Database Resource Manager
offers a more flexible means of managing and tracking resource use. For more
information on the Database Resource Manager, refer to [Oracle Database
Administrator's Guide.](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN027)

Purpose

Use the `CREATE` `PROFILE` statement to create a profile, which is a set of
limits on database resources. If you assign the profile to a user, then that
user cannot exceed these limits.

To specify resource limits for a user, you must:

  * Enable resource limits dynamically with the `ALTER` `SYSTEM` statement or with the initialization parameter `RESOURCE_LIMIT`. This parameter does not apply to password resources. Password resources are always enabled. 

  * Create a profile that defines the limits using the `CREATE` `PROFILE` statement 

  * Assign the profile to the user using the `CREATE` `USER` or `ALTER` `USER` statement 

In a multitenant environment, different profiles can be assigned to a common
user in the root and in a PDB. When the common user logs in to the PDB, a
profile whose setting applies to the session depends on whether the settings
are password-related or resource-related.

  * Password-related profile settings are fetched from the profile that is assigned to the common user in the root. For example, suppose you assign a common profile `c##prof` (in which `FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS` is set to 1) to common user `c##admin` in the root. In a PDB that user is assigned a local profile`local_prof` (in which `FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS` is set to 6.) Common user `c##admin` is allowed only one failed login attempt when he or she tries to log in to the PDB where `loc_prof` is assigned to him. 

  * Resource-related profile settings specified in the profile assigned to a user in a PDB get used without consulting resource-related settings in a profile assigned to the common user in the root. For example, if the profile `local_prof` that is assigned to user `c##admin` in a PDB has `SESSIONS_PER_USER` set to 2, then` c##admin` is only allowed only 2 concurrent sessions when he or she logs in to the PDB `loc_prof` is assigned to him, regardless of value of this setting in a profile assigned to him in the root. 

See Also:

[Oracle Database Security
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG002) for a detailed description and explanation of
how to use password management and protection

Prerequisites

To create a profile, you must have the `CREATE` `PROFILE` system privilege.

To specify the `CONTAINER` clause, you must be connected to a multitenant
container database (CDB). To specify `CONTAINER` `=` `ALL`, the current
container must be the root. To specify `CONTAINER` `=` `CURRENT`, the current
container must be a pluggable database (PDB).

See Also:

  * [ALTER SYSTEM](ALTER-SYSTEM.md#GUID-2C638517-D73A-41CA-9D8E-A62D1A0B7ADB) for information on enabling resource limits dynamically 

  * [Oracle Database Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN10188) for information on the `RESOURCE_LIMIT` parameter 

  * [CREATE USER](CREATE-USER.md#GUID-F0246961-558F-480B-AC0F-14B50134621C) and [ALTER USER](ALTER-USER.md#GUID-9FCD038D-8193-4241-85CD-2F4723B27D44) for information on profiles 

Syntax

create_profile::=

![Description of create_profile.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/create_profile.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
create_profile.eps](img_text/create_profile.md)

resource_parameters::=

![Description of resource_parameters.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/resource_parameters.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
resource_parameters.eps](img_text/resource_parameters.md)

([size_clause::=](size_clause.md#GUID-E97FADC2-A6E1-4D68-9F79-DCA271B86517__CHDEAIID)

password_parameters::=

![Description of password_parameters.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/password_parameters.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
password_parameters.eps](img_text/password_parameters.md)

Semantics

profile

Specify the name of the profile to be created. The name must satisfy the
requirements listed in "[Database Object Naming Rules](Database-Object-Names-
and-Qualifiers.md#GUID-75337742-67FD-4EC0-985F-741C93D918DA)". Use profiles
to limit the database resources available to a user for a single call or a
single session.

In a non-CDB, a profile name cannot begin with `C##` or `c##`.

Note:

A multitenant container database is the only supported architecture in Oracle
Database 21c and later releases. While the documentation is being revised,
legacy terminology may persist. In most cases, "database" and "non-CDB" refer
to a CDB or PDB, depending on context. In some contexts, such as upgrades,
"non-CDB" refers to a non-CDB from a previous release.

In a CDB, the requirements for a profile name are as follows:

  * The name of a common profile must begin with characters that are a case-insensitive match to the prefix specified by the `COMMON_USER_PREFIX` initialization parameter. By default, the prefix is `C##`. 

  * The name of a local profile must not begin with characters that are a case-insensitive match to the prefix specified by the `COMMON_USER_PREFIX` initialization parameter. Regardless of the value of `COMMON_USER_PREFIX`, the name of a local profile can never begin with `C##` or `c##`. 

Note:

If the value of `COMMON_USER_PREFIX` is an empty string, then there are no
requirements for common or local profile names with one exception: the name of
a local profile can never begin with `C##` or `c##`. Oracle recommends against
using an empty string value because it might result in conflicts between the
names of local and common profiles when a PDB is plugged into a different CDB,
or when opening a PDB that was closed when a common user was created.

Oracle Database enforces resource limits in the following ways:

  * If a user exceeds the `CONNECT_TIME` or `IDLE_TIME` session resource limit, then the database rolls back the current transaction and ends the session. When the user process next issues a call, the database returns an error. 

  * If a user attempts to perform an operation that exceeds the limit for other session resources, then the database aborts the operation, rolls back the current statement, and immediately returns an error. The user can then commit or roll back the current transaction, and must then end the session. 

  * If a user attempts to perform an operation that exceeds the limit for a single call, then the database aborts the operation, rolls back the current statement, and returns an error, leaving the current transaction intact. 

MANDATORY

Specify the keyword `MANDATORY` to create a generic mandatory profile in
`CDB$ROOT`. You can use the mandatory profile to enforce password complexity
requirements for database user accounts across the entire CDB or individual
PDBs using the profile parameter `password_verify_function`.

The mandatory profile adds the password complexity requirement in addition to
existing profile limits for common and local users. A PDB administrator cannot
remove the password complexity requirement and allow users to set insecure
shorter passwords, because mandatory profiles, just like common profiles, can
only be altered in `CDB$ROOT` .

You can only use `password_verify_function` and `password_grace_time` profile
parameters to define the limits for the mandatory profile.

Use the profile parameter `password_grace_time` to specify a grace period for
user accounts in violation of mandatory password complexity requirements and
whose passwords have to be changed.

The default value for `password_verify_function` is null. The default value
for `password_grace_time` is 0.

User-Created Password Complexity Function: Example

The example creates a password complexity function `my_mandatory_function` as
the argument to `PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION`.

    
    
    SQL> create or replace function my_mandatory_verify_function
     ( username     varchar2,
       password     varchar2,
       old_password varchar2)
     return boolean IS
    begin
       -- mandatory verify function will always be evaluated regardless of the
       -- password verify function that is associated to a particular profile/user
       -- requires the minimum password length to be 8 characters
       if not ora_complexity_check(password, chars => 8) then
          return(false);
       end if;
       return(true);
    end;
    /
      2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18  
    Function created.

Create a Mandatory Profile: Example

The example creates mandatory profile `c##cdb_profile`. `LIMIT` restricts the
profile to use the only profile parameter allowed, the
`PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION`. The `PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION` specifies the user-
created password complexity function `my_mandatory_function`.

    
    
    CREATE MANDATORY PROFILE c##cdb_profile LIMIT PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION my_mandatory_function
         CONTAINER = ALL ; 

If you want to apply the mandatory user profile for all PDBs in the CDB, then
you must do so in the CDB root using the `ALTER SYSTEM` statement.

Apply the Mandatory Profile to the Entire CDB: Example

You must be in `CDB$ROOT` to execute this statement.

    
    
    ALTER SYSTEM SET MANDATORY_USER_PROFILE=c##cdb_profile;

If you want to apply the mandatory user profile for individual PDBs, then you
must configure the `MANDATORY_USER_PROFILE` parameter in the `init.ora` file
that is associated with the PDB.

Apply the Mandatory Profile to an Individual PDB: Example

Open the `init.ora` file associated with the PDB and set the
`MANDATORY_USER_PROFILE`.

    
    
    MANDATORY_USER_PROFILE=c##cdb_profile;

You can use `SHOW PARAMETER` to find the current `MANDATORY_USER_PROFILE`
setting.

The mandatory profile that you set in `init.ora` takes precedence over the
mandatory profile that you set with the `ALTER SYSTEM` statement in the CDB
root.

Restrictions

  * Only common users who have been commonly granted the `ALTER PROFILE` system privilege can alter or drop the mandatory profile, and only from the CDB root. 

  * Only a common user who has been commonly granted the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege or has the `SYSDBA` administrative privilege can modify the `MANDTORY_USER_PROFILE` in the `init.ora` file. 

Note:

  * You can use fractions of days for all parameters that limit time, with days as units. For example, 1 hour is 1/24 and 1 minute is 1/1440.

  * You can specify resource limits for users regardless of whether the resource limits are enabled. However, Oracle Database does not enforce the limits until you enable them.

See Also:

  * [Managing Security for Database Users](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG-GUID-8EF7F4E6-04DD-42B8-A2C9-649923F26587)

  * "[Creating a Profile: Example](CREATE-PROFILE.md#GUID-ABC7AE4D-64A8-4EA9-857D-BEF7300B64C3__I2092094)"

UNLIMITED

When specified with a resource parameter, `UNLIMITED` indicates that a user
assigned this profile can use an unlimited amount of this resource. When
specified with a password parameter, `UNLIMITED` indicates that no limit has
been set for the parameter.

DEFAULT

Specify `DEFAULT` if you want to omit a limit for this resource in this
profile. A user assigned this profile is subject to the limit for this
resource specified in the `DEFAULT` profile. The `DEFAULT` profile initially
defines unlimited resources. You can change those limits with the `ALTER`
`PROFILE` statement.

Any user who is not explicitly assigned a profile is subject to the limits
defined in the `DEFAULT` profile. Also, if the profile that is explicitly
assigned to a user omits limits for some resources or specifies `DEFAULT` for
some limits, then the user is subject to the limits on those resources defined
by the `DEFAULT` profile.

resource_parameters

SESSIONS_PER_USER

Specify the number of concurrent sessions to which you want to limit the user.

CPU_PER_SESSION

Specify the CPU time limit for a session, expressed in hundredth of seconds.

CPU_PER_CALL

Specify the CPU time limit for a call (a parse, execute, or fetch), expressed
in hundredths of seconds.

CONNECT_TIME

Specify the total elapsed time limit for a session, expressed in minutes.

IDLE_TIME

Specify the permitted periods of continuous inactive time during a session,
expressed in minutes. Long-running queries and other operations are not
subject to this limit.

When you set an idle timeout of X minutes, note that the session will take X
minutes, plus a couple of additional minutes to be terminated.

On the client application side, the error message shows up the next time, when
the idle client attempts to issue a new command.

LOGICAL_READS_PER_SESSION

Specify the permitted number of data blocks read in a session, including
blocks read from memory and disk.

LOGICAL_READS_PER_CALL

Specify the permitted number of data blocks read for a call to process a SQL
statement (a parse, execute, or fetch).

PRIVATE_SGA

Specify the amount of private space a session can allocate in the shared pool
of the system global area (SGA). Refer to
[size_clause](size_clause.md#GUID-E97FADC2-A6E1-4D68-9F79-DCA271B86517) for
information on that clause.

Note:

This limit applies only if you are using shared server architecture. The
private space for a session in the SGA includes private SQL and PL/SQL areas,
but not shared SQL and PL/SQL areas.

COMPOSITE_LIMIT

Specify the total resource cost for a session, expressed in service units.
Oracle Database calculates the total service units as a weighted sum of
`CPU_PER_SESSION`, `CONNECT_TIME`, `LOGICAL_READS_PER_SESSION`, and
`PRIVATE_SGA`.

See Also:

  * [ALTER RESOURCE COST](ALTER-RESOURCE-COST.md#GUID-92DCB41E-5113-4722-8A54-E90E1AE7DB54) for information on how to specify the weight for each session resource 

  * "[Setting Profile Resource Limits: Example](CREATE-PROFILE.md#GUID-ABC7AE4D-64A8-4EA9-857D-BEF7300B64C3__I2120023)"

password_parameters

Use the following clauses to set password parameters. Parameters that set
lengths of timeâthat is, all the password parameters except
`FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS` and `PASSWORD_REUSE_MAX`âare interpreted in number
of days. For testing purposes you can specify minutes (n/1440) or even seconds
(n/86400) for these parameters. You can also use a decimal value for this
purpose (for example .0833 for approximately one hour). The minimum value is 1
second. The maximum value is 24855 days. For `FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS` and
`PASSWORD_REUSE_MAX`, you must specify an integer.

FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS

Specify the number of consecutive failed attempts to log in to the user
account before the account is locked. If you omit this clause, then the
default is 10 times.

PASSWORD_LIFE_TIME

Specify the number of days the same password can be used for authentication.
If you also set a value for `PASSWORD_GRACE_TIME`, then the password expires
if it is not changed within the grace period, and further connections are
rejected. If you omit this clause, then the default is 180 days.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Security
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG567) for information on setting `PASSWORD_LIFE_TIME`
to a low value

PASSWORD_REUSE_TIME and PASSWORD_REUSE_MAX

These two parameters must be set in conjunction with each other.
`PASSWORD_REUSE_TIME` specifies the number of days which need to pass before a
user having this profile can reuse one of their earlier passwords.
`PASSWORD_REUSE_MAX` specifies the number of password changes required before
the current password can be reused. For these parameters to have any effect,
you must specify a value for both of them.

  * If you specify a value for both of these parameters, then the user cannot reuse a password until the password has been changed the number of times specified for `PASSWORD_REUSE_MAX` during the number of days specified for `PASSWORD_REUSE_TIME`. 

For example, if you specify `PASSWORD_REUSE_TIME` to 30 and
`PASSWORD_REUSE_MAX` to 10, then the user can reuse the password after 30 days
if the password has already been changed 10 times.

  * If you specify a value for either of these parameters and specify `UNLIMITED` for the other, then the user can never reuse a password. 

  * If you specify `DEFAULT` for either parameter, then Oracle Database uses the value defined in the `DEFAULT` profile. By default, the `PASSWORD_REUSE_TIME` and `PASSWORD_REUSE_MAX` parameters are set to `UNLIMITED` in the `DEFAULT` profile. If you have not changed the default setting of `UNLIMITED` in the `DEFAULT` profile, then the database treats the value for that parameter as `UNLIMITED`. 

  * If you set both of these parameters to `UNLIMITED`, then the database ignores both of them. This is the default if you omit both parameters. 

PASSWORD_LOCK_TIME

Specify the number of days an account will be locked after the specified
number of consecutive failed login attempts. If you omit this clause, then the
default is 1 day.

PASSWORD_GRACE_TIME

Specify the number of days after the grace period begins during which a
warning is issued and login is allowed. If you omit this clause, then the
default is 7 days.

INACTIVE_ACCOUNT_TIME

Specify the permitted number of consecutive days of no logins to the user
account, after which the account will be locked. The minimum value is 15 days.
The maximum value is 24855. If you omit this clause, then the default is
`UNLIMITED`.

PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION

You can pass a PL/SQL password complexity verification script as an argument
to `CREATE PROFILE` by specifying `PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION`. Oracle Database
provides a default script, but you can write your own function or use third-
party software instead.

  * For `function`, specify the name of the password complexity verification function. The function must exist in the `SYS` schema, and you must have `EXECUTE` privilege on the function. 

  * Specify `NULL` to indicate that no password verification is performed. 

If you specify `expr` for any of the password parameters, then the expression
can be of any form except scalar subquery expression.

Restriction on Password Parameters

When you assign a profile to an external user or a global user, the password
parameters do not take effect for that user.

See Also:

"[Setting Profile Password Limits: Example](CREATE-PROFILE.md#GUID-
ABC7AE4D-64A8-4EA9-857D-BEF7300B64C3__I2098662)"

PASSWORD_ROLLOVER_TIME

You must configure a non-zero limit for the `PASSWORD_ROLLOVER_TIME` user
profile parameter in order to enable the gradual database password rollover.
You can configure this parameter using `CREATE PROFILE` or `ALTER PROFILE`.

Use `expr` to specify a value for `PASSWORD_ROLLOVER_TIME` in days. You must
specify hours as a fraction of one day. For example, if you want to set the
limit to four hours, `expr` would be `4/24` .

The granularity of the `PASSWORD_ROLLOVER_TIME` limit value is one second. For
example, you can have a limit of one hour plus three minutes and five seconds
by providing an `expr` like this: `( 1/24) + ( 3/1440) + (5/86400) )` .

The default setting for `PASSWORD_ROLLOVER_TIME` is 0, which means that
gradual password rollover is disabled.

Example

The example sets the gradual password rollover time period to 1 day:

    
    
    CREATE PROFILE usr_prof LIMIT PASSWORD_ROLLOVER_TIME 1

Limits on `PASSWORD_ROLLOVER_TIME`:

  * Specify a value of 0 for `PASSWORD_ROLLOVER_TIME` if you want to disable the password rollover period. 

  * Specify a positive value for `PASSWORD_ROLLOVER_TIME` to enable the password rollover feature for all users who are members of the profile. 

  * The minimum value you can specify for `PASSWORD_ROLLOVER_TIME` is one hour. You do this by entering `1/24`. If you want to set the password rollover time to six hours, you enter `6/24` as the value for `PASSWORD_ROLLOVER_TIME` . 

  * The value for `PASSWORD_ROLLOVER_TIME` cannot exceed either 60 days, or the current value of the `PASSWORD_GRACE_TIME` limit of the profile, or the current value of the `PASSWORD_LIFE_TIME` limit of the profile; whichever is lowest. 

To find user accounts that are currently in the password rollover period,
query the `ACCOUNT_STATUS` column of the `DBA_USERS` data dictionary view. The
status will be `IN ROLLOVER`.

The password rollover period begins the moment the user changes their
password.

See Also:

[Configuring Authentication](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG-GUID-7CB647A2-B39E-435C-A2F3-55D248D19062)

CONTAINER Clause

The `CONTAINER` clause applies when you are connected to a CDB. However, it is
not necessary to specify the `CONTAINER` clause because its default values are
the only allowed values.

  * To create a common profile, you must be connected to the root. You can optionally specify `CONTAINER` `=` `ALL`, which is the default when you are connected to the root. 

  * To create a local profile, you must be connected to a PDB. You can optionally specify `CONTAINER` `=` `CURRENT`, which is the default when you are connected to a PDB. 

Examples

Creating a Profile: Example

The following statement creates the profile `new_profile`:

    
    
    CREATE PROFILE new_profile
      LIMIT PASSWORD_REUSE_MAX 10
            PASSWORD_REUSE_TIME 30;

Setting Profile Resource Limits: Example

The following statement creates the profile `app_user`:

    
    
    CREATE PROFILE app_user LIMIT 
       SESSIONS_PER_USER          UNLIMITED 
       CPU_PER_SESSION            UNLIMITED 
       CPU_PER_CALL               3000 
       CONNECT_TIME               45 
       LOGICAL_READS_PER_SESSION  DEFAULT 
       LOGICAL_READS_PER_CALL     1000 
       PRIVATE_SGA                15K
       COMPOSITE_LIMIT            5000000; 
    

If you assign the `app_user` profile to a user, then the user is subject to
the following limits in subsequent sessions:

  * The user can have any number of concurrent sessions. 

  * In a single session, the user can consume an unlimited amount of CPU time. 

  * A single call made by the user cannot consume more than 30 seconds of CPU time. 

  * A single session cannot last for more than 45 minutes. 

  * In a single session, the number of data blocks read from memory and disk is subject to the limit specified in the `DEFAULT` profile. 

  * A single call made by the user cannot read more than 1000 data blocks from memory and disk. 

  * A single session cannot allocate more than 15 kilobytes of memory in the SGA.

  * In a single session, the total resource cost cannot exceed 5 million service units. The formula for calculating the total resource cost is specified by the `ALTER` `RESOURCE` `COST` statement. 

  * Since the `app_user` profile omits a limit for `IDLE_TIME` and for password limits, the user is subject to the limits on these resources specified in the `DEFAULT` profile. 

Setting Profile Password Limits: Example

The following statement creates the `app_user2` profile with password limits
values set:

    
    
    CREATE PROFILE app_user2 LIMIT
       FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS 5
       PASSWORD_LIFE_TIME 60
       PASSWORD_REUSE_TIME 60
       PASSWORD_REUSE_MAX 5
       PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION ora12c_verify_function
       PASSWORD_LOCK_TIME 1/24
       PASSWORD_GRACE_TIME 10
       INACTIVE_ACCOUNT_TIME 30;
    

This example uses the default Oracle Database password verification function,
`ora12c_verify_function`. Refer to [Oracle Database Security
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG002) for information on using this verification
function provided or designing your own verification function.


[← Previous](CREATE-PROCEDURE.md)

[Next →](create-property-graph.md)
