[Previous](create-true-cache.md) [Next](CREATE-TYPE-BODY.md) JavaScript
must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: CREATE SEQUENCE to DROP CLUSTER](SQL-Statements-CREATE-SEQUENCE-to-DROP-CLUSTER.md)
  3. CREATE TYPE 

## CREATE TYPE

Purpose

Object types are defined using PL/SQL. Therefore, this section provides some
general information but refers to [Oracle Database PL/SQL Language
Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=LNPLS01375) for details of syntax and semantics.

Note:

Starting with Oracle Database 23ai, the SQLJ method of embedding SQL
statements in Java code is deprecated. Oracle recommends using the Java
Database Connectivity (JDBC) APIs instead of SQLJ.

Use the `CREATE` `TYPE` statement to create the specification of an object
type, a SQLJ object type, a named varying array (varray), a nested table type,
or an incomplete object type. You create object types with the `CREATE` `TYPE`
and the `CREATE` `TYPE` `BODY` statements. The `CREATE` `TYPE` statement
specifies the name of the object type, its attributes, methods, and other
properties. The `CREATE` `TYPE` `BODY` statement contains the code for the
methods that implement the type.

Note:

  * If you create an object type for which the type specification declares only attributes but no methods, then you need not specify a type body.

  * If you create a SQLJ object type, then you cannot specify a type body. The implementation of the type is specified as a Java class.

An incomplete type is a type created by a forward type definition. It is
called "incomplete" because it has a name but no attributes or methods. It can
be referenced by other types, and so can be used to define types that refer to
each other. However, you must fully specify the type before you can use it to
create a table or an object column or a column of a nested table type.

See Also:

  * [CREATE TYPE BODY](CREATE-TYPE-BODY.md#GUID-C4F1591A-6F62-4897-9039-2C3F066F1E9D) for information on creating the member methods of a type 

  * [Oracle Database Object-Relational Developer's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADOBJ001) for more information about objects, incomplete types, varrays, and nested tables 

Prerequisites

To create a type in your own schema, you must have the `CREATE` `TYPE` system
privilege. To create a type in another user's schema, you must have the
`CREATE` `ANY` `TYPE` system privilege. You can acquire these privileges
explicitly or be granted them through a role.

To create a subtype, you must have the `UNDER` `ANY` `TYPE` system privilege
or the `UNDER` object privilege on the supertype.

The owner of the type must be explicitly granted the `EXECUTE` object
privilege in order to access all other types referenced within the definition
of the type, or the type owner must be granted the `EXECUTE` `ANY` `TYPE`
system privilege. The owner cannot obtain these privileges through roles.

If the type owner intends to grant other users access to the type, then the
owner must be granted the `EXECUTE` object privilege on the referenced types
with the `GRANT` `OPTION` or the `EXECUTE` `ANY` `TYPE` system privilege with
the `ADMIN` `OPTION`. Otherwise, the type owner has insufficient privileges to
grant access on the type to other users.

User-Defined Datatypes Declared as Non-Persistable Datatypes

You can specify a user-defined datatype as non-persistable when creating the
datatype. Instances of non-persistable types cannot persist on disk.
Perisistable data types include the following:

  * ANSI-supported data types, for example `NUMERIC`, `DECIMAL`, `REAL`. 

  * Oracle built-in data types, for example `NUMBER`, `VARCHAR2`, `TIMESTAMP`. 

  * Oracle-supplied data types, for example `ANYDATA`, `XML Type`, `ORDImage`. 

Rules For SQL User-Defined Data Types

  * A persistable type cannot have attributes or elements of non-persistable types.

  * A non-persistable type can have attributes or elements of both persistable and non-persistable types.

  * A sub-type must inherit the persistence property from its super type.

  * A `REF` type is persistable and can hold references only to objects of persistable types. 

  * You cannot persist instances of non-persistable types on disk. If you create a table with a type that has been declared as non-persistable, the `CREATE TABLE` statement will fail. The following operations will likewise fail: 

    * Create or alter a relational table with columns of non-persistable types.

    * Create an object table with columns of non-persistable types.

    * Store instances of non-persistable types in an `ANYDATA` instance which is persisted on disk. 

You can specify unique PL/SQL attributes in the `CREATE TYPE` statement in the
PL/SQL context only.

Syntax

Types are defined using PL/SQL. Therefore, the syntax diagram in this book
shows only the SQL keywords. Refer to [Oracle Database PL/SQL Language
Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=LNPLS01375) for the PL/SQL syntax, semantics, and
examples.

create_type::=

![Description of create_type.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/create_type.gif)  
[Description of the illustration create_type.eps](img_text/create_type.md)

(`plsql_type_source`: See [Oracle Database PL/SQL Language
Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=LNPLS1619).)

Semantics

OR REPLACE

Specify `OR` `REPLACE` to re-create the type if it already exists. Use this
clause to change the definition of an existing type without first dropping it.

Users previously granted privileges on the re-created object type can use and
reference the object type without being granted privileges again.

If any function-based indexes depend on the type, then Oracle Database marks
the indexes `DISABLED`.

IF NOT EXISTS

Specifying `IF NOT EXISTS` has the following effects:

  * If the type does not exist, a new type is created at the end of the statement.

  * If the type exists, this is the type you have at the end of the statement. A new one is not created because the older one is detected.

You can have one of `OR REPLACE` or `IF NOT EXISTS` in a statement at a time.
Using both `OR REPLACE` with `IF NOT EXISTS` in the very same statement
results in the following error: `ORA-11541: REPLACE and IF NOT EXISTS cannot
coexist in the same DDL statement`.

Using `IF EXISTS` with `CREATE` results in `ORA-11543: Incorrect IF NOT EXISTS
clause for CREATE statement`.

[ EDITIONABLE | NONEDITIONABLE ]

Use these clauses to specify whether the type is an editioned or noneditioned
object if editioning is enabled for the schema object type `TYPE` in
`schema`.The default is `EDITIONABLE`. For information about editioned and
noneditioned objects, see [Oracle Database Development
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADFNS99923).

plsql_type_source

See [Oracle Database PL/SQL Language
Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=LNPLS1619) for the syntax and semantics of the
`plsql_type_source`.


[← Previous](create-true-cache.md)

[Next →](CREATE-TYPE-BODY.md)
