[Previous](Database-Objects.md) [Next](Syntax-for-Schema-Objects-and-Parts-
in-SQL-Statements.md) JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this
content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Basic Elements of Oracle SQL](Basic-Elements-of-Oracle-SQL.md)
  3. Database Object Names and Qualifiers 

## Database Object Names and Qualifiers

Some database objects are made up of parts that you can or must name, such as
the columns in a table or view, index and table partitions and subpartitions,
integrity constraints on a table, and objects that are stored within a
package, including procedures and stored functions. This section provides:

  * Rules for naming database objects and database object location qualifiers

  * Guidelines for naming database objects and qualifiers

Note:

Oracle uses system-generated names beginning with "`SYS_`" for implicitly
generated database objects and subobjects, and names beginning with "`ORA_`"
for some Oracle-supplied objects. Oracle discourages you from using these
prefixes in the names you explicitly provide to your database objects and
subobjects to avoid possible conflict in name resolution.

### Database Object Naming Rules

Every database object has a name. In a SQL statement, you represent the name
of an object with a quoted identifier or a nonquoted identifier.

  * A quoted identifier begins and ends with double quotation marks ("). If you name a schema object using a quoted identifier, then you must use the double quotation marks whenever you refer to that object. 

  * A nonquoted identifier is not surrounded by any punctuation. 

You must use double quotation marks (") for schema names that begin with
numbers or special characters.

You can use either quoted or nonquoted identifiers to name any database
object. However, database names, global database names, database link names,
disk group names, and pluggable database (PDB) names are always case
insensitive and are stored as uppercase. If you specify such names as quoted
identifiers, then the quotation marks are silently ignored.

See Also:

[CREATE USER](CREATE-USER.md#GUID-F0246961-558F-480B-AC0F-14B50134621C) for
additional rules for naming users and passwords

Note:

Oracle does not recommend using quoted identifiers for database object names.
These quoted identifiers are accepted by SQL*Plus, but they may not be valid
when using other tools that manage database objects.

The following list of rules applies to both quoted and nonquoted identifiers
unless otherwise indicated:

  1. The maximum length of identifier names depends on the value of the `COMPATIBLE` initialization parameter. 

     * If COMPATIBLE is set to a value of 12.2 or higher, then names must be from 1 to 128 bytes long with these exceptions: 

       * Names of databases are limited to 8 bytes.

       * Names of disk groups, pluggable databases (PDBs), rollback segments, tablespaces, and tablespace sets are limited to 30 bytes. 

       * From Release 21c onwards names of pluggable databases are limited to 64 bytes.

If an identifier includes multiple parts separated by periods, then each
attribute can be up to 128 bytes long. Each period separator, as well as any
surrounding double quotation marks, counts as one byte. For example, suppose
you identify a column like this:

        
                "schema"."table"."column"
        

The schema name can be 128 bytes, the table name can be 128 bytes, and the
column name can be 128 bytes. Each of the quotation marks and periods is a
single-byte character, so the total length of the identifier in this example
can be up to 392 bytes.

     * If COMPATIBLE is set to a value lower than 12.2, then names must be from 1 to 30 bytes long with these exceptions: 

       * Names of databases are limited to 8 bytes.

       * Names of database links can be as long as 128 bytes.

If an identifier includes multiple parts separated by periods, then each
attribute can be up to 30 bytes long. Each period separator, as well as any
surrounding double quotation marks, counts as one byte. For example, suppose
you identify a column like this:

        
                "schema"."table"."column"
        

The schema name can be 30 bytes, the table name can be 30 bytes, and the
column name can be 30 bytes. Each of the quotation marks and periods is a
single-byte character, so the total length of the identifier in this example
can be up to 98 bytes.

  2. Nonquoted identifiers cannot be Oracle SQL reserved words. Quoted identifiers can be reserved words, although this is not recommended. 

Depending on the Oracle product you plan to use to access a database object,
names might be further restricted by other product-specific reserved words.

Note:

The reserved word `ROWID` is an exception to this rule. You cannot use the
uppercase word `ROWID`, either quoted or nonquoted, as a column name. However,
you can use the uppercase word as a quoted identifier that is not a column
name, and you can use the word with one or more lowercase letters (for
example, "`Rowid`" or "`rowid`") as any quoted identifier, including a column
name.

See Also:

     * [Oracle SQL Reserved Words](Oracle-SQL-Reserved-Words.md#GUID-55C49D1E-BE08-4C50-A9DD-8593EB925612) for a listing of all Oracle SQL reserved words 

     * The manual for a specific product, such as [Oracle Database PL/SQL Language Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=LNPLS019), for a list of the reserved words of that product 

  3. The Oracle SQL language contains other words that have special meanings. These words include data types, schema names, function names, the dummy system table `DUAL`, and keywords (the uppercase words in SQL statements, such as `DIMENSION`, `SEGMENT`, `ALLOCATE`, `DISABLE`, and so forth). These words are not reserved. However, Oracle uses them internally in specific ways. Therefore, if you use these words as names for objects and object parts, then your SQL statements may be more difficult to read and may lead to unpredictable results. 

In particular, do not use words beginning with `SYS_` or `ORA_` as schema
object names, and do not use the names of SQL built-in functions for the names
of schema objects or user-defined functions.

See Also:

     * [Oracle SQL Keywords](Oracle-SQL-Keywords.md#GUID-82EA000B-5661-41EB-AAF7-6BDDB4AB58EE) for information how to obtain a list of keywords 

     * [Data Types](Data-Types.md#GUID-A3C0D836-BADB-44E5-A5D4-265BA5968483), [About SQL Functions](About-SQL-Functions.md#GUID-D51AB228-518C-4213-8BD4-F919623D105E), and [Selecting from the DUAL Table](Selecting-from-the-DUAL-Table.md#GUID-0AB153FC-5238-4E79-8522-C9E2A04AB5E4)

  4. You should use characters from the ASCII repertoire in database names, global database names, and database link names, because these characters provide optimal compatibility across different platforms and operating systems. You must use only characters from the ASCII repertoire in the names of common users, common roles, and common profiles in a multitenant container database (CDB). 

  5. You can include multibyte characters in passwords.

  6. Nonquoted identifiers must begin with an alphabetic character from your database character set. Quoted identifiers can begin with any character.

  7. Nonquoted identifiers can only contain alphanumeric characters from your database character set and the underscore (_), dollar sign ($), and pound sign (#). Database links can also contain periods (.) and "at" signs (@). Oracle strongly discourages you from using $ and # in nonquoted identifiers.

Quoted identifiers can contain any characters and punctuations marks as well
as spaces. However, neither quoted nor nonquoted identifiers can contain
double quotation marks or the null character (`\0`).

  8. Within a namespace, no two objects can have the same name. 

The following schema objects share one namespace:

     * Packages

     * Private synonyms

     * Sequences

     * Stand-alone procedures

     * Stand-alone stored functions

     * Tables

     * User-defined operators

     * User-defined types

     * Views

Each of the following schema objects has its own namespace:

     * Clusters

     * Constraints

     * Database triggers

     * Dimensions

     * Indexes

     * Materialized views (When you create a materialized view, the database creates an internal table of the same name. This table has the same namespace as the other tables in the schema. Therefore, a schema cannot contain a table and a materialized view of the same name.)

     * Private database links

Because tables and sequences are in the same namespace, a table and a sequence
in the same schema cannot have the same name. However, tables and indexes are
in different namespaces. Therefore, a table and an index in the same schema
can have the same name.

Each schema in the database has its own namespaces for the objects it
contains. This means, for example, that two tables in different schemas are in
different namespaces and can have the same name.

Each of the following nonschema objects also has its own namespace:

     * Editions

     * Parameter files (`PFILE`s) and server parameter files (`SPFILE`s) 

     * Profiles

     * Public database links

     * Public synonyms

     * Tablespaces

     * User roles

Because the objects in these namespaces are not contained in schemas, these
namespaces span the entire database.

  9. Nonquoted identifiers are not case sensitive. Oracle interprets them as uppercase. Quoted identifiers are case sensitive.

By enclosing names in double quotation marks, you can give the following names
to different objects in the same namespace:

    
        "employees"
    "Employees"
    "EMPLOYEES"
    

Note that Oracle interprets the following names the same, so they cannot be
used for different objects in the same namespace:

    
        employees
    EMPLOYEES
    "EMPLOYEES"
    

  10. When Oracle stores or compares identifiers in uppercase, the uppercase form of each character in the identifiers is determined by applying the uppercasing rules of the database character set. Language-specific rules determined by the session setting `NLS_SORT` are not considered. This behavior corresponds to applying the SQL function `UPPER` to the identifier rather than the function `NLS_UPPER`. 

The database character set uppercasing rules can yield results that are
incorrect when viewed as being in a certain natural language. For example,
small letter sharp s ("Ã"), used in German, does not have an uppercase form
according to the database character set uppercasing rules. It is not modified
when an identifier is converted into uppercase, while the expected uppercase
form in German is the sequence of two characters capital letter S ("SS").
Similarly, the uppercase form of small letter i, according to the database
character set uppercasing rules, is capital letter I. However, the expected
uppercase form in Turkish and Azerbaijani is capital letter I with dot above.

The database character set uppercasing rules ensure that identifiers are
interpreted the same in any linguistic configuration of a session. If you want
an identifier to look correctly in a certain natural language, then you can
quote it to preserve the lowercase form or you can use the linguistically
correct uppercase form whenever you use that identifier.

  11. Columns in the same table or view cannot have the same name. However, columns in different tables or views can have the same name.

  12. Procedures or functions contained in the same package can have the same name, if their arguments are not of the same number and data types. Creating multiple procedures or functions with the same name in the same package with different arguments is called overloading the procedure or function. 

  13. Tablespace names are case sensitive, unlike other identifiers that are limited to 30 bytes.

### Schema Object Naming Examples

The following examples are valid schema object names:

    
    
    last_name
    horse
    hr.hire_date
    "EVEN THIS & THAT!"
    a_very_long_and_valid_name
    

All of these examples adhere to the rules listed in [Database Object Naming
Rules](Database-Object-Names-and-
Qualifiers.md#GUID-75337742-67FD-4EC0-985F-741C93D918DA).

### Schema Object Naming Guidelines

Here are several helpful guidelines for naming objects and their parts:

  * Use full, descriptive, pronounceable names (or well-known abbreviations).

  * Use consistent naming rules.

  * Use the same name to describe the same entity or attribute across tables.

When naming objects, balance the objective of keeping names short and easy to
use with the objective of making names as descriptive as possible. When in
doubt, choose the more descriptive name, because the objects in the database
may be used by many people over a period of time. Your counterpart ten years
from now may have difficulty understanding a table column with a name like
`pmdd` instead of `payment_due_date`.

Using consistent naming rules helps users understand the part that each table
plays in your application. One such rule might be to begin the names of all
tables belonging to the `FINANCE` application with `fin_`.

Use the same names to describe the same things across tables. For example, the
department number columns of the sample `employees` and `departments` tables
are both named `department_id`.


[← Previous](Database-Object-Names-and-Qualifiers.md)

[Next →](Syntax-for-Schema-Objects-and-Parts-in-SQL-Statements.md)
