[Previous](DROP-TABLE.md) [Next](DROP-TABLESPACE-SET.md) JavaScript must
be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: DROP TABLE to LOCK TABLE](SQL-Statements-DROP-TABLE-to-LOCK-TABLE.md)
  3. DROP TABLESPACE 

## DROP TABLESPACE

Purpose

Use the `DROP` `TABLESPACE` statement to remove a tablespace from the
database.

When you drop a tablespace, Oracle Database does not place it in the recycle
bin. Therefore, you cannot subsequently either purge or undrop the tablespace.

See Also:

[CREATE TABLESPACE](CREATE-
TABLESPACE.md#GUID-51F07BF5-EFAF-4910-9040-C473B86A8BF9) and [ALTER
TABLESPACE](ALTER-TABLESPACE.md#GUID-CA074861-55D3-4768-8995-43D4DA26365D)
for information on creating and modifying a tablespace

Prerequisites

You must have the `DROP` `TABLESPACE` system privilege. You cannot drop a
tablespace if it contains any rollback segments holding active transactions.

Syntax

drop_tablespace::=

![Description of drop_tablespace.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/drop_tablespace.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
drop_tablespace.eps](img_text/drop_tablespace.md)

Semantics

IF EXISTS

Specify `IF EXISTS` to drop an existing tablespace.

Specifying `IF NOT EXISTS` with `ALTER` results in error: `Incorrect `IF
EXISTS` clause for `ALTER/DROP` statement.`

tablespace

Specify the name of the tablespace to be dropped, including those of shadow
tablespaces, that store lost write protection updates.

You can drop a tablespace regardless of whether it is online or offline.
Oracle recommends that you take the tablespace offline before dropping it to
ensure that no SQL statements in currently running transactions access any of
the objects in the tablespace.

You cannot drop the `SYSTEM` tablespace. You can drop the `SYSAUX` tablespace
only if you have the `SYSDBA` system privilege and you have started the
database in `UPGRADE` mode.

You may want to alert any users who have been assigned the tablespace as
either a default or temporary tablespace. After the tablespace has been
dropped, these users cannot allocate space for objects or sort areas in the
tablespace. You can reassign users new default and temporary tablespaces with
the `ALTER` `USER` statement.

Any objects that were previously dropped from the tablespace and moved to the
recycle bin are purged from the recycle bin. Oracle Database removes from the
data dictionary all metadata about the tablespace and all data files and temp
files in the tablespace. The database also automatically drops from the
operating system any Oracle-managed data files and temp files in the
tablespace. Other data files and temp files are not removed from the operating
system unless you specify `INCLUDING` `CONTENTS` `AND` `DATAFILES`.

You cannot use this statement to drop a tablespace group. However, if
`tablespace` is the only tablespace in a tablespace group, then Oracle
Database removes the tablespace group from the data dictionary as well.

Restrictions on Dropping Tablespaces

Dropping tablespaces is subject to the following restrictions:

  * You cannot drop a tablespace that contains a domain index or any objects created by a domain index. 

  * You cannot drop an undo tablespace if it is being used by any instance or if it contains any undo data needed to roll back uncommitted transactions.

  * You cannot drop a tablespace that has been designated as the default tablespace for the database. You must first reassign another tablespace as the default tablespace and then drop the old default tablespace.

  * You cannot drop a temporary tablespace if it is part of the database default temporary tablespace group. You must first remove the tablespace from the database default temporary tablespace group and then drop it.

  * You cannot drop a temporary tablespace if it contains segments that are in use by existing sessions. In this case, no error is raised. The database waits until there are no segments in use by existing sessions and then drops the tablespace.

  * You cannot drop a tablespace, even with the `INCLUDING` `CONTENTS` and `CASCADE` `CONSTRAINTS` clauses, if doing so would disable a primary key or unique constraint in another tablespace. For example, if the tablespace being dropped contains a primary key index, but the primary key column itself is in a different tablespace, then you cannot drop the tablespace until you have manually disabled the primary key constraint in the other tablespace. 

See Also:

[Oracle Database Data Cartridge Developer's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADDCI270) and [Oracle Database
Concepts](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=CNCPT607) for more information on domain indexes

{ DROP | KEEP } QUOTA

Specify `DROP` `QUOTA` to drop all user quotas for the tablespace. Specify
`KEEP` `QUOTA` to retain all user quotas for the tablespace. The default is
`KEEP` `QUOTA`.

You can view all user quotas for a tablespace by querying the `DBA_TS_QUOTAS`
data dictionary view.

INCLUDING CONTENTS

Specify `INCLUDING` `CONTENTS` to drop all the contents of the tablespace,
including those of shadow tablespaces that store lost write protection
updates. You must specify this clause to drop a tablespace that contains any
database objects. If you omit this clause, and the tablespace is not empty,
then the database returns an error and does not drop the tablespace.

`DROP` `TABLESPACE` fails, even if you specify `INCLUDING` `CONTENTS`, if the
tablespace contains some, but not all, of the partitions or subpartitions of a
single table. If all the partitions or subpartitions of a partitioned table
reside in `tablespace`, then `DROP` `TABLESPACE` ... `INCLUDING` `CONTENTS`
drops `tablespace`, as well as any associated index segments, LOB data and
index segments, and nested table data and index segments of `table` in other
tablespace(s).

For a partitioned index-organized table, if all the primary key index segments
are in this tablespace, then this clause will also drop any overflow segments
that exist in other tablespaces, as well as any associated mapping table in
other tablespaces. If some of the primary key index segments are not in this
tablespace, then the statement will fail. In that case, before you can drop
the tablespace, you must use `ALTER` `TABLE` ... `MOVE` `PARTITION` to move
those primary key index segments into this tablespace, drop the partitions
whose overflow data segments are not in this tablespace, and drop the
partitioned index-organized table.

If the tablespace contains a master table of a materialized view, then the
database invalidates the materialized view.

If the tablespace contains a materialized view log, then the database drops
the log and any other direct-path `INSERT` refresh information associated with
the table.

AND DATAFILES

When you specify `INCLUDING` `CONTENTS`, the `AND` `DATAFILES` clause lets you
instruct the database to delete the associated operating system files as well.
Oracle Database writes a message to the alert log for each operating system
file deleted. This clause is not needed for Oracle Managed Files, because they
are removed from the system even if you do not specify `AND` `DATAFILES`.

KEEP DATAFILES

When you specify `INCLUDING` `CONTENTS`, the `KEEP` `DATAFILES` clause lets
you instruct the database to leave untouched the associated operating system
files, including Oracle Managed Files. You must specify this clause if you are
using Oracle Managed Files and you do not want the associated operating system
files removed by the `INCLUDING` `CONTENTS` clause.

CASCADE CONSTRAINTS

Specify `CASCADE` `CONSTRAINTS` to drop all referential integrity constraints
from tables outside `tablespace` that refer to primary and unique keys of
tables inside `tablespace`. If you omit this clause and such referential
integrity constraints exist, then Oracle Database returns an error and does
not drop the tablespace.

Examples

Dropping a Tablespace: Example

The following statement drops the `tbs_01` tablespace and drops all
referential integrity constraints that refer to primary and unique keys inside
`tbs_01`:

    
    
    DROP TABLESPACE tbs_01 
        INCLUDING CONTENTS 
            CASCADE CONSTRAINTS; 

Dropping a Shadow Tablespace: Example

The following statement tries to move the tracked data in the shadow
tablespace to another shadow tablespace. This only works if there are shadow
tablespaces in the PDB with enough free space.

    
    
    DROP TABLESPACE <shadow_tablespace_name>

The following statement drops the shadow tablespace and all its contents. All
the tracking data is lost.

Dropping Shadow Tablespace Including Contents: Example

    
    
    DROP TABLESPACE <shadow_tablespace_name> 
        INCLUDING CONTENTS

Deleting Operating System Files: Example

The following example drops the `tbs_02` tablespace and deletes all associated
operating system data files:

    
    
    DROP TABLESPACE tbs_02
       INCLUDING CONTENTS AND DATAFILES;


[← Previous](DROP-TABLE.md)

[Next →](DROP-TABLESPACE-SET.md)
