[Previous](SQL-Statements-DROP-TABLE-to-LOCK-TABLE.md) [Next](DROP-
TABLESPACE.md) JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: DROP TABLE to LOCK TABLE](SQL-Statements-DROP-TABLE-to-LOCK-TABLE.md)
  3. DROP TABLE 

## DROP TABLE

Purpose

Use the `DROP` `TABLE` statement to move a table or object table to the
recycle bin or to remove the table and all its data from the database
entirely.

Note:

Unless you specify the `PURGE` clause, the `DROP` `TABLE` statement does not
result in space being released back to the tablespace for use by other
objects, and the space continues to count toward the user's space quota.

For an external table, this statement removes only the table metadata in the
database. It has no affect on the actual data, which resides outside of the
database.

When you drop a table that is part of a cluster, the table is moved to the
recycle bin. However, if you subsequently drop the cluster, then the table is
purged from the recycle bin and can no longer be recovered with a `FLASHBACK`
`TABLE` operation.

Dropping a table invalidates dependent objects and removes object privileges
on the table. If you want to re-create the table, then you must regrant object
privileges on the table, re-create the indexes, integrity constraints, and
triggers for the table, and respecify its storage parameters. Truncating has
none of these effects. Therefore, removing rows with the `TRUNCATE` statement
can be more efficient than dropping and re-creating a table.

See Also:

  * [CREATE TABLE](CREATE-TABLE.md#GUID-F9CE0CC3-13AE-4744-A43C-EAC7A71AAAB6) and [ALTER TABLE](ALTER-TABLE.md#GUID-552E7373-BF93-477D-9DA3-B2C9386F2877) for information on creating and modifying tables 

  * [TRUNCATE TABLE](TRUNCATE-TABLE.md#GUID-B76E5846-75B5-4876-98EC-439E15E4D8A4) and [DELETE](DELETE.md#GUID-156845A5-B626-412B-9F95-8869B988ABD7) for information on removing data from a table 

  * [FLASHBACK TABLE](FLASHBACK-TABLE.md#GUID-FA9AF2FD-2DAD-4387-9E62-14AFC26EA85C) for information on retrieving a dropped table from the recycle bin 

Prerequisites

The table must be in your own schema or you must have the `DROP` `ANY` `TABLE`
system privilege.

You can perform DDL operations (such as `ALTER` `TABLE`, `DROP` `TABLE`,
`CREATE` `INDEX`) on a temporary table only when no session is bound to it. A
session becomes bound to a temporary table by performing an `INSERT` operation
on the table. A session becomes unbound to the temporary table by issuing a
`TRUNCATE` statement or at session termination, or, for a transaction-specific
temporary table, by issuing a `COMMIT` or `ROLLBACK` statement.

Dropping Private Temporary Tables

You can drop a private temporary table using the existing `DROP` `TABLE`
command. Dropping a private temporary table will not commit an existing
transaction. This applies to both transaction-specific and session-specific
private temporary tables. Note that a dropped private temporary table will not
go into the `RECYCLEBIN`.

Dropping Blockchain and Immutable Tables

Use the `DROP TABLE` statement to drop a blockchain or immutable table. It is
recommended that you include the `PURGE` option while dropping these tables.
Dropping a blockchain or immutable table removes its definition from the data
dictionary, deletes all its rows, and deletes any indexes and triggers defined
on the table.

The blockchain or immutable table must be contained in your schema, or you
must have the `DROP ANY TABLE` system privilege.

A blockchain or immutable table can be dropped only after it has not been
modified for a period of time that is defined by its retention period.

An empty blockchain or immutable table can be dropped regardless of its
retention period.

Syntax

drop_table::=

![Description of drop_table.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/drop_table.gif)  
[Description of the illustration drop_table.eps](img_text/drop_table.md)

Semantics

IF EXISTS

Specifying `IF EXISTS` drops the table if it exists.

Using `IF NOT EXISTS` with `DROP TABLE` results in `ORA-11544: Incorrect IF
EXISTS clause for ALTER/DROP statement`.

schema

Specify the schema containing the table. If you omit `schema`, then Oracle
Database assumes the table is in your own schema.

table

Specify the name of the table to be dropped. Oracle Database automatically
performs the following operations:

  * All rows from the table are dropped. 

  * All table indexes and domain indexes are dropped, as well as any triggers defined on the table, regardless of who created them or whose schema contains them. If `table` is partitioned, then any corresponding local index partitions are also dropped. 

  * All the storage tables of nested tables and LOBs of `table` are dropped. 

  * When you drop a range-, hash-, or list-partitioned table, then the database drops all the table partitions. If you drop a composite-partitioned table, then all the partitions and subpartitions are also dropped.

  * When you drop a partitioned table with the `PURGE` keyword, the statement executes as a series of subtransactions, each of which drops a subset of partitions or subpartitions and their metadata. This division of the drop operation into subtransactions optimizes the processing of internal system resource consumption (for example, the library cache), especially for the dropping of very large partitioned tables. As soon as the first subtransaction commits, the table is marked `UNUSABLE`. If any of the subtransactions fails, then the only operation allowed on the table is another `DROP` `TABLE` ... `PURGE` statement. Such a statement will resume work from where the previous `DROP` `TABLE` statement failed, assuming that you have corrected any errors that the previous operation encountered. 

You can list the tables marked `UNUSABLE` by such a drop operation by querying
the `status` column of the `*_TABLES`, `*_PART_TABLES`, `*_ALL_TABLES`, or
`*_OBJECT_TABLES` data dictionary views, as appropriate.

See Also:

[Oracle Database VLDB and Partitioning
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=VLDBG00305) for more information on dropping partitioned
tables.

  * For an index-organized table, any mapping tables defined on the index-organized table are dropped.

  * For a domain index, the appropriate drop routines are invoked. Refer to [Oracle Database Data Cartridge Developer's Guide ](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADDCI4200)for more information on these routines. 

  * If any statistics types are associated with the table, then the database disassociates the statistics types with the `FORCE` clause and removes any user-defined statistics collected with the statistics type. 

See Also:

[ASSOCIATE STATISTICS](ASSOCIATE-STATISTICS.md#GUID-
BD02BA6A-32A7-4093-A6B6-BAE860C0F834) and [DISASSOCIATE
STATISTICS](DISASSOCIATE-
STATISTICS.md#GUID-6E9A7D93-E28A-469D-97AB-2BECC2EF3C43) for more
information on statistics type associations

  * If the table is not part of a cluster, then the database returns all data blocks allocated to the table and its indexes to the tablespaces containing the table and its indexes.

To drop a cluster and all its the tables, use the `DROP` `CLUSTER` statement
with the `INCLUDING` `TABLES` clause to avoid dropping each table
individually. See [DROP CLUSTER](DROP-
CLUSTER.md#GUID-531F7DE2-AA2A-400E-BC9A-4CBEEA7B7156).

  * If the table is a base table for a view, a container or master table of a materialized view, or if it is referenced in a stored procedure, function, or package, then the database invalidates these dependent objects but does not drop them. You cannot use these objects unless you re-create the table or drop and re-create the objects so that they no longer depend on the table. 

If you choose to re-create the table, then it must contain all the columns
selected by the subqueries originally used to define the materialized views
and all the columns referenced in the stored procedures, functions, or
packages. Any users previously granted object privileges on the views, stored
procedures, functions, or packages need not be regranted these privileges.

If the table is a master table for a materialized view, then the materialized
view can still be queried, but it cannot be refreshed unless the table is re-
created so that it contains all the columns selected by the defining query of
the materialized view.

If the table has a materialized view log, then the database drops this log and
any other direct-path `INSERT` refresh information associated with the table.

Restrictions on Dropping Tables

  * You cannot directly drop the storage table of a nested table. Instead, you must drop the nested table column using the `ALTER` `TABLE` ... `DROP` `COLUMN` clause. 

  * You cannot drop the parent table of a reference-partitioned table. You must first drop all reference-partitioned child tables.

  * You cannot drop a table that uses a flashback data archive for historical tracking. You must first disable the table's use of the flashback archive.

CASCADE CONSTRAINTS

Specify `CASCADE` `CONSTRAINTS` to drop all referential integrity constraints
that refer to primary and unique keys in the dropped table. If you omit this
clause, and such referential integrity constraints exist, then the database
returns an error and does not drop the table.

PURGE

Specify `PURGE` if you want to drop the table and release the space associated
with it in a single step. If you specify `PURGE`, then the database does not
place the table and its dependent objects into the recycle bin.

Note:

You cannot roll back a `DROP` `TABLE` statement with the `PURGE` clause, nor
can you recover the table if you have dropped it with the `PURGE` clause.

Using this clause is equivalent to first dropping the table and then purging
it from the recycle bin. This clause lets you save one step in the process. It
also provides enhanced security if you want to prevent sensitive material from
appearing in the recycle bin.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Administrator's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN01511) for information on the recycle bin and naming
conventions for objects in the recycle bin

Examples

Dropping a Table: Example

The following statement drops the `oe.list_customers` table created in "[List
Partitioning Example](CREATE-
TABLE.md#GUID-F9CE0CC3-13AE-4744-A43C-EAC7A71AAAB6__I2115317)".

    
    
    DROP TABLE list_customers PURGE; 


[← Previous](SQL-Statements-DROP-TABLE-to-LOCK-TABLE.md)

[Next →](DROP-TABLESPACE.md)
