[Previous](EXP.md) [Next](EXTRACT-XML.md) JavaScript must be enabled to
correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. EXTRACT (datetime) 

## EXTRACT (datetime)

Syntax

extract_datetime::=

![Description of extract_datetime.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/extract_datetime.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
extract_datetime.eps](img_text/extract_datetime.md)

Purpose

`EXTRACT` extracts and returns the value of a specified datetime field from a
datetime or interval expression. The `expr` can be any expression that
evaluates to a datetime or interval data type compatible with the requested
field:

  * If `YEAR` or `MONTH` is requested, then `expr` must evaluate to an expression of data type `DATE`, `TIMESTAMP`, `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE`, `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `LOCAL` `TIME` `ZONE`, or `INTERVAL` `YEAR` `TO` `MONTH`. 

  * If `DAY` is requested, then `expr` must evaluate to an expression of data type `DATE`, `TIMESTAMP`, `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE`, `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `LOCAL` `TIME` `ZONE`, or `INTERVAL` `DAY` `TO` `SECOND`. 

  * If `HOUR`, `MINUTE`, or `SECOND` is requested, then `expr` must evaluate to an expression of data type `TIMESTAMP`, `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE`, `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `LOCAL` `TIME` `ZONE`, or `INTERVAL` `DAY` `TO` `SECOND`. `DATE` is not valid here, because Oracle Database treats it as ANSI `DATE` data type, which has no time fields. 

  * If `TIMEZONE_HOUR`, `TIMEZONE_MINUTE`, `TIMEZONE_ABBR`, `TIMEZONE_REGION`, or `TIMEZONE_OFFSET` is requested, then `expr` must evaluate to an expression of data type `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE` or `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `LOCAL` `TIME` `ZONE`. 

`EXTRACT` interprets `expr` as an ANSI datetime data type. For example,
`EXTRACT` treats `DATE` not as legacy Oracle `DATE` but as ANSI `DATE`,
without time elements. Therefore, you can extract only `YEAR`, `MONTH`, and
`DAY` from a `DATE` value. Likewise, you can extract `TIMEZONE_HOUR` and
`TIMEZONE_MINUTE` only from the `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE` data type.

When you specify `TIMEZONE_REGION` or `TIMEZONE_ABBR` (abbreviation), the
value returned is a `VARCHAR2` string containing the appropriate time zone
region name or abbreviation. When you specify any of the other datetime
fields, the value returned is an integer value of `NUMBER` data type
representing the datetime value in the Gregorian calendar. When extracting
from a datetime with a time zone value, the value returned is in UTC. For a
listing of time zone region names and their corresponding abbreviations, query
the `V$TIMEZONE_NAMES` dynamic performance view.

This function can be very useful for manipulating datetime field values in
very large tables, as shown in the first example below.

Note:

Time zone region names are needed by the daylight saving feature. These names
are stored in two types of time zone files: one large and one small. One of
these files is the default file, depending on your environment and the release
of Oracle Database you are using. For more information regarding time zone
files and names, see [Oracle Database Globalization Support
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG014).

Some combinations of datetime field and datetime or interval value expression
result in ambiguity. In these cases, Oracle Database returns `UNKNOWN` (see
the examples that follow for additional information).

See Also:

  * [Oracle Database Globalization Support Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG0141) for a complete listing of the time zone region names in both files 

  * Appendix C in [Oracle Database Globalization Support Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG-GUID-AFCE41ED-775B-4A00-AF38-C436776AE0C5) for the collation derivation rules, which define the collation assigned to the character return value of `EXTRACT`

  * [Datetime/Interval Arithmetic](Data-Types.md#GUID-E405BBC7-DA9A-4DF2-9F22-E60CB9EC0705) for a description of `datetime_value_expr` and `interval_value_expr`

  * [Oracle Database Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN003) for information on the dynamic performance views 

Examples

The following example returns from the `oe.orders` table the number of orders
placed in each month:

    
    
    SELECT EXTRACT(month FROM order_date) "Month", COUNT(order_date) "No. of Orders"
      FROM orders
      GROUP BY EXTRACT(month FROM order_date)
      ORDER BY "No. of Orders" DESC, "Month";
    
         Month No. of Orders
    ---------- -------------
            11            15
             6            14
             7            14
             3            11
             5            10
             2             9
             9             9
             8             7
            10             6
             1             5
            12             4
             4             1
     
    12 rows selected.
    

The following example returns the year 1998.

    
    
    SELECT EXTRACT(YEAR FROM DATE '1998-03-07')
      FROM DUAL;
    
    EXTRACT(YEARFROMDATE'1998-03-07')
    ---------------------------------
                                 1998
    

The following example selects from the sample table `hr.employees` all
employees who were hired after 2007:

    
    
    SELECT last_name, employee_id, hire_date
      FROM employees
      WHERE EXTRACT(YEAR FROM hire_date) > 2007
      ORDER BY hire_date;
    
    LAST_NAME                 EMPLOYEE_ID HIRE_DATE
    ------------------------- ----------- ---------
    Johnson                           179 04-JAN-08
    Grant                             199 13-JAN-08
    Marvins                           164 24-JAN-08
    . . .
    

The following example results in ambiguity, so Oracle returns `UNKNOWN`:

    
    
    SELECT EXTRACT(TIMEZONE_REGION FROM TIMESTAMP '1999-01-01 10:00:00 -08:00')
      FROM DUAL;
    
    EXTRACT(TIMEZONE_REGIONFROMTIMESTAMP'1999-01-0110:00:00-08:00')
    ----------------------------------------------------------------
    UNKNOWN
    

The ambiguity arises because the time zone numerical offset is provided in the
expression, and that numerical offset may map to more than one time zone
region name.


[← Previous](EXP.md)

[Next →](EXTRACT-XML.md)
