[Previous](deallocate_unused_clause.md) [Next](logging_clause.md)
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Common SQL DDL Clauses ](Common-SQL-DDL-Clauses.md)
  3. file_specification 

## file_specification

Purpose

Use one of the `file_specification` forms to specify a file as a data file or
temp file, or to specify a group of one or more files as a redo log file
group. If you are storing your files in Oracle Automatic Storage Management
(Oracle ASM) disk groups, then you can further specify the file as a disk
group file.

A `file_specification` can appear in the following statements:

  * `CREATE` `CONTROLFILE` (see [CREATE CONTROLFILE](CREATE-CONTROLFILE.md#GUID-9B389F28-C4D0-405D-BFE6-48237E8BD791)) 

  * `CREATE` `DATABASE` (see [CREATE DATABASE](CREATE-DATABASE.md#GUID-ECE717DF-F116-4151-927C-2E51BB9DD39C)) 

  * `ALTER` `DATABASE` (see [ALTER DATABASE](ALTER-DATABASE.md#GUID-8069872F-E680-4511-ADD8-A4E30AF67986)) 

  * `CREATE` `TABLESPACE` (see [CREATE TABLESPACE](CREATE-TABLESPACE.md#GUID-51F07BF5-EFAF-4910-9040-C473B86A8BF9)) 

  * `ALTER` `TABLESPACE` (see [ALTER TABLESPACE](ALTER-TABLESPACE.md#GUID-CA074861-55D3-4768-8995-43D4DA26365D)) 

  * `ALTER` `DISKGROUP` (see [ALTER DISKGROUP](ALTER-DISKGROUP.md#GUID-22D73AB6-7063-4627-A2ED-18D521ED2557)) 

Prerequisites

You must have the privileges necessary to issue the statement in which the
file specification appears.

Syntax

file_specification::=

![Description of file_specification.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/file_specification.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
file_specification.eps](img_text/file_specification.md)

datafile_tempfile_spec::=

![Description of datafile_tempfile_spec.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/datafile_tempfile_spec.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
datafile_tempfile_spec.eps](img_text/datafile_tempfile_spec.md)

([size_clause::=](size_clause.md#GUID-E97FADC2-A6E1-4D68-9F79-DCA271B86517__CHDEAIID))

redo_log_file_spec::=

![Description of redo_log_file_spec.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/redo_log_file_spec.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
redo_log_file_spec.eps](img_text/redo_log_file_spec.md)

([size_clause::=](size_clause.md#GUID-E97FADC2-A6E1-4D68-9F79-DCA271B86517__CHDEAIID))

ASM_filename::=

![Description of asm_filename.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/asm_filename.gif)  
[Description of the illustration asm_filename.eps](img_text/asm_filename.md)

fully_qualified_file_name::=

![Description of fully_qualified_file_name.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/fully_qualified_file_name.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
fully_qualified_file_name.eps](img_text/fully_qualified_file_name.md)

numeric_file_name::=

![Description of numeric_file_name.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/numeric_file_name.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
numeric_file_name.eps](img_text/numeric_file_name.md)

incomplete_file_name::=

![Description of incomplete_file_name.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/incomplete_file_name.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
incomplete_file_name.eps](img_text/incomplete_file_name.md)

alias_file_name::=

![Description of alias_file_name.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/alias_file_name.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
alias_file_name.eps](img_text/alias_file_name.md)

autoextend_clause::=

![Description of autoextend_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/autoextend_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
autoextend_clause.eps](img_text/autoextend_clause.md)

([size_clause::=](size_clause.md#GUID-E97FADC2-A6E1-4D68-9F79-DCA271B86517__CHDEAIID))

maxsize_clause::=

![Description of maxsize_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/maxsize_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
maxsize_clause.eps](img_text/maxsize_clause.md)

([size_clause::=](size_clause.md#GUID-E97FADC2-A6E1-4D68-9F79-DCA271B86517__CHDEAIID))

Semantics

This section describes the semantics of `file_specification`. For additional
information, refer to the SQL statement in which you specify a data file, temp
file, redo log file, or Oracle ASM disk group or disk group file.

datafile_tempfile_spec

Use this clause to specify the attributes of data files and temp files if your
database storage is in a file system or in Oracle ASM disk groups.

redo_log_file_spec

Use this clause to specify the attributes of redo log files if your database
storage is in a file system or in Oracle ASM disk groups.

filename

Use `filename` for files stored in a file system. The `filename` can specify
either a new file or an existing file. For a new file:

  * If you are not using Oracle Managed Files, then you must specify both `filename` and the `SIZE` clause or the statement fails. When you specify a filename without a size, Oracle attempts to reuse an existing file and returns an error if the file does not exist. 

  * If you are using Oracle Managed Files, then `filename` is optional, as are the remaining clauses of the specification. In this case, Oracle Database creates a unique name for the file and saves it in the directory specified by one of the following initialization parameters: 

    * The `DB_RECOVERY_FILE_DEST` (for logfiles and control files) 

    * The `DB_CREATE_FILE_DEST` initialization parameter (for any type of file) 

    * The `DB_CREATE_ONLINE_LOG_DEST_``n` initialization parameter, which takes precedence over `DB_CREATE_FILE_DEST` and `DB_RECOVERY_FILE_DEST` for log files. 

For an existing file, specify the name of either a data file, temp file, or a
redo log file member. The `filename` can contain only single-byte characters
from 7-bit ASCII or EBCDIC character sets. Multibyte characters are not valid.

The filename can include a path prefix. If you do not specify such a path
prefix, then the database adds the path prefix for the default storage
location, which is platform dependent.

A redo log file group can have one or more members (copies). Each `filename`
must be fully specified according to the conventions for your operating
system.

The way the database interprets `filename` also depends on whether you specify
it with the `SIZE` and `REUSE` clauses.

  * If you specify `filename` only, or with the `REUSE` clause but without the `SIZE` clause, then the file must already exist. 

  * If you specify `filename` with `SIZE` but without `REUSE`, then the file must be a new file. 

  * If you specify `filename` with both `SIZE` and `REUSE`, then the file can be either new or existing. If the file exists, then it is reused with the new size. If it does not exist, then the database ignores the `REUSE` keyword and creates a new file of the specified size. 

See Also:

[Oracle Automatic Storage Management Administrator's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=OSTMG03620) for more information on Oracle Managed Files,
"[Specifying a Data File:
Example](file_specification.md#GUID-580FA726-F712-4410-90CF-783A2DA89688__I1015815)",
and "[Specifying a Log File:
Example](file_specification.md#GUID-580FA726-F712-4410-90CF-783A2DA89688__I1015778)"

ASM_filename

Use a form of `ASM_filename` for files stored in Oracle ASM disk groups. You
can create or refer to data files, temp files, and redo log files with this
syntax.

All forms of `ASM_filename` begin with the plus sign (+) followed by the name
of the disk group. You can determine the names of all Oracle ASM disk groups
by querying the `V$ASM_DISKGROUP` view.

See Also:

[Oracle Automatic Storage Management Administrator's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=OSTMG21000) for information on using Oracle ASM

fully_qualified_file_name

When you create a file in an Oracle ASM disk group, the file receives a
system-generated fully qualified Oracle ASM filename. You can use this form
only when referring to an existing Oracle ASM file. Therefore, if you are
using this form during file creation, you must also specify `REUSE`.

  * `db_name` is the value of the `DB_UNIQUE_NAME` initialization parameter. This name is equivalent to the name of the database on which the file resides, but the parameter distinguishes between primary and standby databases, if both exist. 

  * `file_type` and `file_type_tag` indicate the type of database file. [Table 8-1](file_specification.md#GUID-580FA726-F712-4410-90CF-783A2DA89688__BABGJJEC "The columns shows each ASM file type, its description, and its corresponding file type tag, along with comments.") lists all of the file types and their corresponding Oracle ASM tags. 

  * `filenumber` and `incarnation_number` are system-generated identifiers to guarantee uniqueness. 

You can determine the fully qualified names of Oracle ASM files by querying
the dynamic performance view appropriate for the file type (for example
`V$DATAFILE` for data files, `V$CONTROLFILE` for control files, and so on).
You can also obtain the `filenumber` and `incarnation_number` portions of the
fully qualified names by querying the `V$ASM_FILE` view.

Table 8-1 Oracle File Types and Oracle ASM File Type Tags

Oracle ASM file_type | Description | Oracle ASM file_type_tag | Comments  
---|---|---|---  
`CONTROLFILE` |  Control files and backup control files |  Current Backup |  â  
`DATAFILE` |  Data files and data file copies |  `tsname` |  Tablespace into which the file is added  
`ONLINELOG` |  Online logs |  `group_``group#` |  â  
`ARCHIVELOG` |  Archive logs |  `thread_``thread#``_seq_``sequence#` |  â  
`TEMPFILE` |  Temp files |  `tsname` |  Tablespace into which the file is added  
`BACKUPSET` |  Data file and archive log backup pieces; data file incremental backup pieces |  `hasspfile`_`timestamp` |  `hasspfile` can take one of two values: `s` indicates that the backup set includes the `spfile`; `n` indicates that the backup set does not include the `spfile`.   
`PARAMETERFILE` |  Persistent parameter files |  `spfile` |  â  
`DATAGUARDCONFIG` |  Data Guard configuration file |  `db_unique_name` |  Data Guard uses the value of the `DB_UNIQUE_NAME` initialization parameter.   
`FLASHBACK` |  Flashback logs |  `log_``log#` |  â  
`CHANGETRACKING` |  Block change tracking data |  `ctf` |  Used during incremental backups  
`DUMPSET` |  Data Pump dumpset |  `user`_`obj#`_`file#` |  Dump set files encode the user name, the job number that created the dump set, and the file number as part of the tag.  
`XTRANSPORT` |  Data file convert |  `tsname` |  â  
`AUTOBACKUP` |  Automatic backup files |  `hasspfile`_`timestamp` |  `hasspfile` can take one of two values: `s` indicates that the backup set includes the `spfile`; `n` indicates that the backup set does not include the `spfile`.   
  
numeric_file_name

A numeric Oracle ASM filename is similar to a fully qualified filename except
that it uses only the unique `filenumber.incarnation_number` string. You can
use this form only to refer to an existing file. Therefore, if you are using
this form during file creation, you must also specify `REUSE`.

incomplete_file_name

Incomplete Oracle ASM filenames are used during file creation only. If you
specify the disk group name alone, then Oracle ASM uses the appropriate
default template for the file type. For example, if you are creating a data
file in a `CREATE` `TABLESPACE` statement, Oracle ASM uses the default
`DATAFILE` template to create an Oracle ASM data file. If you specify the disk
group name with a template, then Oracle ASM uses the specified template to
create the file. In both cases, Oracle ASM also creates a fully qualified
filename.

template_name

A template is a named collection of attributes. You can create templates and
apply them to files in a disk group. You can determine the names of all Oracle
ASM template names by querying the `V$ASM_TEMPLATE` data dictionary view.
Refer to [diskgroup_template_clauses](ALTER-
DISKGROUP.md#GUID-22D73AB6-7063-4627-A2ED-18D521ED2557__I2168808) for
instructions on creating Oracle ASM templates.

You can specify `template` only during file creation. It appears in the
incomplete and alias name forms of the `ASM_filename` diagram:

  * If you specify `template` immediately after the disk group name, then Oracle ASM uses the specified template to create the file, and gives the file a fully qualified filename. 

  * If you specify template after specifying an alias, then Oracle ASM uses the specified template to create the file, gives the file a fully qualified filename, and also creates the alias so that you can subsequently use it to refer to the file. If the alias you specify refers to an existing file, then Oracle ASM ignores the template specification unless you also specify `REUSE`. 

See Also:

[diskgroup_template_clauses](ALTER-
DISKGROUP.md#GUID-22D73AB6-7063-4627-A2ED-18D521ED2557__I2168808) for
information about the default templates

alias_file_name

An alias is a user-friendly name for an Oracle ASM file. You can use alias
filenames during file creation or reference. You can specify a template with
an alias, but only during file creation. To determine the alias names for
Oracle ASM files, query the `V$ASM_ALIAS` data dictionary view.

If you are specifying an alias during file creation, then refer to
[diskgroup_directory_clauses](ALTER-
DISKGROUP.md#GUID-22D73AB6-7063-4627-A2ED-18D521ED2557__I2175401) and
[diskgroup_alias_clauses](ALTER-
DISKGROUP.md#GUID-22D73AB6-7063-4627-A2ED-18D521ED2557__I2168812) for
instructions on specifying the full alias name.

SIZE Clause

Specify the size of the file in bytes. Use `K`, `M`, `G`, or `T` to specify
the size in kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes, or terabytes.

  * For undo tablespaces, you must specify the `SIZE` clause for each data file. For other tablespaces, you can omit this parameter if the file already exists, or if you are creating an Oracle Managed File. 

  * If you omit this clause when creating an Oracle Managed File, then Oracle creates a 100M file.

  * The size of a tablespace must be one block greater than the sum of the sizes of the objects contained in it.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Administrator's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN013) for information on automatic undo management
and undo tablespaces and "[Adding a Log File:
Example](file_specification.md#GUID-580FA726-F712-4410-90CF-783A2DA89688__I1015789)"

BLOCKSIZE Clause

Specify `BLOCKSIZE` to override the operating system-dependent sector size. If
you omit this clause, then the database uses the operating system-dependent
sector size as the block size.

When you add a redo log file to a 512-byte sector disk or to a 4KB sector disk
with 512-byte emulation, the blocksize of the new file must be the original
platform base block size or 4KB.

  * If the redo log file is being added to a 512-byte sector disk, then you must specify 512 or 1024 (or 1K) as the block size, depending on your platform.

  * If the redo log file is being added to a 4KB sector disk (native), then you must specify either 4096 or 4K as the block size.

  * If the redo log file is being added to a 4KB sector disk with 512-byte emulation, then you can specify either 512, 1024 (or 1K), or 4096 (or 4K) as the block size, depending on your platform.

All logs within a log group must have the same block size. Two log groups
created on separate disks can have different block sizes. However, the mixed
configuration introduces overhead at every log switch. Oracle recommends that
you create all log files with the same block size.

This clause is useful when the 4K sector size is in use, but you want to
optimize disk space use rather than performance. In such a case you can
override the operating system sector size by specifying `BLOCKSIZE` 512 or,
for HP-UX, `BLOCKSIZE` 1024\.

See Also:

"[Adding a Log File:
Example](file_specification.md#GUID-580FA726-F712-4410-90CF-783A2DA89688__I1015789)"

REUSE

Specify `REUSE` to allow Oracle to reuse an existing file.

  * If the file already exists, then Oracle reuses the filename and applies the new size (if you specify `SIZE`) or retains the original size. 

  * If the file does not exist, then Oracle ignores this clause and creates the file.

Restriction on the REUSE Clause

You cannot specify `REUSE` unless you have specified `filename`.

Whenever Oracle uses an existing file, the previous contents of the file are
lost.

See Also:

"[Adding a Data File:
Example](file_specification.md#GUID-580FA726-F712-4410-90CF-783A2DA89688__I1015826)"
and "[Adding a Log File:
Example](file_specification.md#GUID-580FA726-F712-4410-90CF-783A2DA89688__I1015789)"

autoextend_clause

The `autoextend_clause` is valid for data files and temp files but not for
redo log files. Use this clause to enable or disable the automatic extension
of a new or existing data file or temp file. If you omit this clause, then:

  * For Oracle Managed Files:

    * If you specify `SIZE`, then Oracle Database creates a file of the specified size with `AUTOEXTEND` disabled. 

    * If you do not specify `SIZE`, then the database creates a 100M file with `AUTOEXTEND` enabled. When autoextension is required, the database extends the file by its original size or 100MB, whichever is smaller. You can override this default behavior by specifying the `NEXT` clause. 

  * For user-managed files, with or without `SIZE` specified, Oracle creates a file with `AUTOEXTEND` disabled. 

ON

Specify `ON` to enable autoextend.

OFF

Specify `OFF` to turn off autoextend if is turned on. When you turn off
autoextend, the values of `NEXT` and `MAXSIZE` are set to zero. If you turn
autoextend back on in a subsequent statement, then you must reset these
values.

NEXT

Use the `NEXT` clause to specify the size in bytes of the next increment of
disk space to be allocated automatically when more extents are required. The
default is the size of one data block.

MAXSIZE

Use the `MAXSIZE` clause to specify the maximum disk space allowed for
automatic extension of the data file.

UNLIMITED

Use the `UNLIMITED` clause if you do not want to limit the disk space that
Oracle can allocate to the data file or temp file.

Restriction on the autoextend_clause

You cannot specify this clause as part of the `datafile_tempfile_spec` in a
`CREATE` `CONTROLFILE` statement or in an `ALTER` `DATABASE` `CREATE`
`DATAFILE` clause.

Examples

Specifying a Log File: Example

The following statement creates a database named `payable` that has two redo
log file groups, each with two members, and one data file:

    
    
    CREATE DATABASE payable 
       LOGFILE GROUP 1 ('diska:log1.log', 'diskb:log1.log') SIZE 50K, 
               GROUP 2 ('diska:log2.log', 'diskb:log2.log') SIZE 50K 
       DATAFILE 'diskc:dbone.dbf' SIZE 30M; 
    

The first file specification in the `LOGFILE` clause specifies a redo log file
group with the `GROUP` value 1. This group has members named
'`diska:log1.log`' and '`diskb:log1.log`', each 50 kilobytes in size.

The second file specification in the `LOGFILE` clause specifies a redo log
file group with the `GROUP` value 2. This group has members named
'`diska:log2.log`' and '`diskb:log2.log`', also 50 kilobytes in size.

The file specification in the `DATAFILE` clause specifies a data file named
'`diskc:dbone.dbf`', 30 megabytes in size.

Each file specification specifies a value for the `SIZE` parameter and omits
the `REUSE` clause, so none of these files can already exist. Oracle must
create them.

Adding a Log File: Example

The following statement adds another redo log file group with two members to
the `payable` database:

    
    
    ALTER DATABASE payable 
       ADD LOGFILE GROUP 3 ('diska:log3.log', 'diskb:log3.log') 
       SIZE 50K REUSE; 
    

The file specification in the `ADD` `LOGFILE` clause specifies a new redo log
file group with the `GROUP` value 3. This new group has members named
'`diska:log3.log`' and '`diskb:log3.log`', each 50 kilobytes in size. Because
the file specification specifies the `REUSE` clause, each member can (but need
not) already exist.

The following statement adds a logfile group 5 with member log files on
migration target disks `4k_disk_a` and `4k_disk_b`. After executing this
statement, you can switch existing log files on disks with 512-byte block size
to logs with 4K block size using the [switch_logfile_clause](ALTER-
DATABASE.md#GUID-8069872F-E680-4511-ADD8-A4E30AF67986__BGBIGEHB).

    
    
    ALTER DATABASE ADD LOGFILE GROUP 5
         ('4k_disk_a:log5.log', '4k_disk_b:log5.log')
         SIZE 100M BLOCKSIZE 4096 REUSE;

Specifying a Data File: Example

The following statement creates a tablespace named `stocks` that has three
data files:

    
    
    CREATE TABLESPACE stocks 
       DATAFILE 'stock1.dbf' SIZE 10M, 
                'stock2.dbf' SIZE 10M,
                'stock3.dbf' SIZE 10M; 
    

The file specifications for the data files specify files named
'`diskc:stock1.dbf`', '`diskc:stock2.dbf`', and '`diskc:stock3.dbf`'.

Adding a Data File: Example

The following statement alters the `stocks` tablespace and adds a new data
file:

    
    
    ALTER TABLESPACE stocks 
       ADD DATAFILE 'stock4.dbf' SIZE 10M REUSE; 
    

The file specification specifies a data file named '`stock4.dbf`'. If the
filename does not exist, then Oracle simply ignores the `REUSE` keyword.

Using a Fully Qualified Oracle ASM Data File Name: Example

When using Oracle ASM, the following syntax shows how to use the
`fully_qualified_file_name` clause to bring online a data file in a
hypothetical database, `testdb`:

    
    
    ALTER DATABASE testdb 
       DATAFILE '+dgroup_01/testdb/datafile/system.261.1' ONLINE; 
    


[← Previous](deallocate_unused_clause.md)

[Next →](logging_clause.md)
