[Previous](FEATURE_VALUE.md) [Next](FIRST_VALUE.md) JavaScript must be
enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. FIRST 

## FIRST

Syntax

first::=

![Description of first.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/first.gif)  
[Description of the illustration first.eps](img_text/first.md)

See Also:

"[Analytic Functions](Analytic-
Functions.md#GUID-527832F7-63C0-4445-8C16-307FA5084056)" for information on
syntax, semantics, and restrictions of the `ORDER` `BY` clause and `OVER`
clause

Purpose

`FIRST` and `LAST` are very similar functions. Both are aggregate and analytic
functions that operate on a set of values from a set of rows that rank as the
`FIRST` or `LAST` with respect to a given sorting specification. If only one
row ranks as `FIRST` or `LAST`, then the aggregate operates on the set with
only one element.

If you omit the `OVER` clause, then the `FIRST` and `LAST` functions are
treated as aggregate functions. You can use these functions as analytic
functions by specifying the `OVER` clause. The `query_partition_clause` is the
only part of the `OVER` clause valid with these functions. If you include the
`OVER` clause but omit the `query_partition_clause`, then the function is
treated as an analytic function, but the window defined for analysis is the
entire table.

These functions take as an argument any numeric data type or any nonnumeric
data type that can be implicitly converted to a numeric data type. The
function returns the same data type as the numeric data type of the argument.

When you need a value from the first or last row of a sorted group, but the
needed value is not the sort key, the `FIRST` and `LAST` functions eliminate
the need for self-joins or views and enable better performance.

  * The `aggregate_function` argument is any one of the `MIN`, `MAX`, `SUM`, `AVG`, `COUNT`, `VARIANCE`, or `STDDEV` functions. It operates on values from the rows that rank either `FIRST` or `LAST`. If only one row ranks as `FIRST` or `LAST`, then the aggregate operates on a singleton (nonaggregate) set. 

  * The `KEEP` keyword is for semantic clarity. It qualifies `aggregate_function`, indicating that only the `FIRST` or `LAST` values of `aggregate_function` will be returned. 

  * `DENSE_RANK` `FIRST` or `DENSE_RANK` `LAST` indicates that Oracle Database will aggregate over only those rows with the minimum (`FIRST`) or the maximum (`LAST`) dense rank (also called olympic rank). 

See Also:

[Table 2-9](Data-Type-Comparison-
Rules.md#GUID-98BE3A78-6E33-4181-B5CB-D96FD9DC1694__G195937 "An X in a cell
indicates implicit conversion of the data types") for more information on
implicit conversion and
[LAST](LAST.md#GUID-4E16BC0E-D3B8-4BA4-8F97-3A08891A85CC)

Aggregate Example

The following example returns, within each department of the sample table
`hr.employees`, the minimum salary among the employees who make the lowest
commission and the maximum salary among the employees who make the highest
commission:

    
    
    SELECT department_id,
           MIN(salary) KEEP (DENSE_RANK FIRST ORDER BY commission_pct) "Worst",
           MAX(salary) KEEP (DENSE_RANK LAST ORDER BY commission_pct) "Best"
      FROM employees
      GROUP BY department_id
      ORDER BY department_id;
    
    DEPARTMENT_ID      Worst       Best
    ------------- ---------- ----------
               10       4400       4400
               20       6000      13000
               30       2500      11000
               40       6500       6500
               50       2100       8200
               60       4200       9000
               70      10000      10000
               80       6100      14000
               90      17000      24000
              100       6900      12008
              110       8300      12008
                        7000       7000

Analytic Example

The next example makes the same calculation as the previous example but
returns the result for each employee within the department:

    
    
    SELECT last_name, department_id, salary,
           MIN(salary) KEEP (DENSE_RANK FIRST ORDER BY commission_pct)
             OVER (PARTITION BY department_id) "Worst",
           MAX(salary) KEEP (DENSE_RANK LAST ORDER BY commission_pct)
             OVER (PARTITION BY department_id) "Best"
       FROM employees
       ORDER BY department_id, salary, last_name;
    
    LAST_NAME           DEPARTMENT_ID     SALARY      Worst       Best
    ------------------- ------------- ---------- ---------- ----------
    Whalen                         10       4400       4400       4400
    Fay                            20       6000       6000      13000
    Hartstein                      20      13000       6000      13000
    . . .
    Gietz                         110       8300       8300      12008
    Higgins                       110      12008       8300      12008
    Grant                                   7000       7000       7000


[← Previous](FEATURE_VALUE.md)

[Next →](FIRST_VALUE.md)
