[Previous](EXPLAIN-PLAN.md) [Next](FLASHBACK-TABLE.md) JavaScript must be
enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: DROP TABLE to LOCK TABLE](SQL-Statements-DROP-TABLE-to-LOCK-TABLE.md)
  3. FLASHBACK DATABASE

## FLASHBACK DATABASE

Purpose

Use the `FLASHBACK` `DATABASE` statement to return the database to a past time
or system change number (SCN). This statement provides a fast alternative to
performing incomplete database recovery.

Following a `FLASHBACK` `DATABASE` operation, in order to have write access to
the flashed back database, you must reopen it with an `ALTER` `DATABASE`
`OPEN` `RESETLOGS` statement.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Backup and Recovery User's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=BRADV71000) for more information on `FLASHBACK`
`DATABASE`

Prerequisites

You must have the `SYSDBA`, `SYSBACKUP`, or `SYSDG` system privilege.

If you are connected to a multitenant container database (CDB):

  * To flash back a CDB, you must be connected to the root and you must have the `SYSDBA`, `SYSBACKUP`, or `SYSDG` system privilege granted commonly. 

  * To flash back a PDB you must be connected to the root and you must have the `SYSDBA`, `SYSBACKUP`, or `SYSDG` system privilege granted commonly, or you must be connected to the PDB you want to flash back and you must have the `SYSDBA`, `SYSBACKUP`, or `SYSDG` system privilege, granted commonly or granted locally in that PDB. 

A fast recovery area must have been prepared for the database. The database
must have been put in `FLASHBACK` mode with an `ALTER` `DATABASE` `FLASHBACK`
`ON` statement unless you are flashing the database back to a guaranteed
restore point. The database must be mounted but not open.

In addition:

  * The database must run in `ARCHIVELOG` mode. 

  * The database must be mounted, but not open, with a current control file. The control file cannot be a backup or re-created. When the database control file is restored from backup or re-created, all existing flashback log information is discarded.

  * The database must contain no online tablespaces for which flashback functionality was disabled with the SQL statement `ALTER` `TABLESPACE` ... `FLASHBACK` `OFF`. 

See Also:

  * [Oracle Database Backup and Recovery User's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=BRADV017) and the `ALTER` `DATABASE` ... [flashback_mode_clause](ALTER-DATABASE.md#GUID-8069872F-E680-4511-ADD8-A4E30AF67986__I2155821) for information on putting the database in `FLASHBACK` mode 

  * [CREATE RESTORE POINT](CREATE-RESTORE-POINT.md#GUID-AD0FB693-7C28-4908-A870-BA884B320575) for information on restore points and guaranteed restore points 

Syntax

flashback_database::=

![Description of flashback_database.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/flashback_database.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
flashback_database.eps](img_text/flashback_database.md)

Semantics

When you issue a `FLASHBACK` `DATABASE` statement, Oracle Database first
verifies that all required archived and online redo logs are available. If
they are available, then it reverts all currently online data files in the
database to the SCN or time specified in this statement.

  * The amount of Flashback data retained in the database is controlled by the `DB_FLASHBACK_RETENTION_TARGET` initialization parameter and the size of the fast recovery area. You can determine how far back you can flash back the database by querying the `V$FLASHBACK_DATABASE_LOG` view. 

  * If insufficient data remains in the database to perform the flashback, then you can use standard recovery procedures to recover the database to a past point in time.

  * If insufficient data remains for a set of data files, then the database returns an error. In this case, you can take those data files offline and reissue the statement to revert the remainder of the database. You can then attempt to recover the offline data files using standard recovery procedures.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Backup and Recovery User's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=BRADV89765) for more information on recovering data files

STANDBY

Specify `STANDBY` to revert the standby database to an earlier SCN or time. If
the database is not a standby database, then the database returns an error. If
you omit this clause, then `database` can be either a primary or a standby
database.

See Also:

[Oracle Data Guard Concepts and
Administration](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=SBYDB00717) for information on how you can use
`FLASHBACK` `DATABASE` on a standby database to achieve different delays

PLUGGABLE

Specify `PLUGGABLE` to flash back a PDB. You must specify this clause whether
the current container is the root or the PDB you want to flash back.

Restrictions on Flashing Back a PDB

  * You cannot flash back a proxy PDB.

  * If the CDB is in shared undo mode, then you can only flash back a PDB to a clean PDB restore point. Refer to the [CLEAN](CREATE-RESTORE-POINT.md#GUID-AD0FB693-7C28-4908-A870-BA884B320575__CLEAN-2B81B840) clause of `CREATE` `RESTORE` `POINT` for more information. 

database

If you are flashing back a CDB, then you can optionally specify the name of
the database to be flashed back. If you omit `database`, then Oracle Database
flashes back the database identified by the value of the initialization
parameter `DB_NAME`.

If you are flashing back a PDB and the current container is the root, then use
`database` to specify the name of the PDB to be flashed back. If you are
flashing back a PDB and the current container is that PDB, then you can
optionally use `database` to specify the PDB name.

TO SCN Clause

Specify a system change number (SCN):

  * `TO SCN` reverts the database back to its state at the specified SCN. 

  * `TO BEFORE SCN` reverts the database back to its state at the system change number just preceding the specified SCN. 

You can determine the current SCN by querying the `CURRENT_SCN` column of the
[`V$DATABASE`](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN30047) view. This in turn lets you save the SCN to a
spool file, for example, before running a high-risk batch job.

TO TIMESTAMP Clause

Specify a valid datetime expression.

  * `TO TIMESTAMP` reverts the database back to its state at the specified timestamp. 

  * `TO BEFORE TIMESTAMP` reverts the database back to its state one second before the specified timestamp. 

You can represent the timestamp as an offset from a determinate value, such as
`SYSDATE`, or as an absolute system timestamp.

TO RESTORE POINT Clause

Specify this clause to flash back the database to the specified restore point.
If you have not enabled flashback database, then this is the only clause you
can specify in this `FLASHBACK` `DATABASE` statement. If the database is not
in `FLASHBACK` mode, as described in the "Prerequisites" section above, then
this is the only clause you can specify for this statement.

RESETLOGS

Specify `TO` `BEFORE` `RESETLOGS` to flash the database back to just before
the last resetlogs operation (`ALTER` `DATABASE` `OPEN` `RESETLOGS`).

See Also:

[Oracle Database Backup and Recovery User's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=BRADV85442) for more information about this clause

Examples

Assuming that you have prepared a fast recovery area for the database and
enabled media recovery, enable database `FLASHBACK` mode and open the database
with the following statements:

    
    
    STARTUP MOUNT 
    ALTER DATABASE FLASHBACK ON;
    ALTER DATABASE OPEN;
    

With your database open for at least a day, you can flash back the database
one day with the following statements:

    
    
    SHUTDOWN DATABASE
    STARTUP MOUNT 
    FLASHBACK DATABASE TO TIMESTAMP SYSDATE-1;


[← Previous](EXPLAIN-PLAN.md)

[Next →](FLASHBACK-TABLE.md)
