[Previous](FLASHBACK-DATABASE.md) [Next](GRANT.md) JavaScript must be
enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: DROP TABLE to LOCK TABLE](SQL-Statements-DROP-TABLE-to-LOCK-TABLE.md)
  3. FLASHBACK TABLE 

## FLASHBACK TABLE

Purpose

Use the `FLASHBACK` `TABLE` statement to restore an earlier state of a table
in the event of human or application error. The time in the past to which the
table can be flashed back is dependent on the amount of undo data in the
system. Also, Oracle Database cannot restore a table to an earlier state
across any DDL operations that change the structure of the table.

Note:

Oracle strongly recommends that you run your database in automatic undo mode
by leaving the `UNDO_MANAGEMENT` initialization parameter set to `AUTO`, which
is the default. In addition, set the `UNDO_RETENTION` initialization parameter
to an interval large enough to include the oldest data you anticipate needing.
For more information refer to the documentation on the
[`UNDO_MANAGEMENT`](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN10224) and
[`UNDO_RETENTION`](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN10225) initialization parameters.

You cannot roll back a `FLASHBACK` `TABLE` statement. However, you can issue
another `FLASHBACK` `TABLE` statement and specify a time just prior to the
current time. Therefore, it is advisable to record the current SCN before
issuing a `FLASHBACK` `TABLE` clause.

See Also:

  * To set the `UNDO_RETENTION` initialization parameter, see [Setting the Minimum Undo Retention Period](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN-GUID-C1272948-3E08-45D9-BD5A-D6461E249EFB)

  * [FLASHBACK DATABASE](FLASHBACK-DATABASE.md#GUID-BE0ACF9A-BC13-4810-B08B-33326440258B) for information on reverting the entire database to an earlier version 

  * the [flashback_query_clause](SELECT.md#GUID-CFA006CA-6FF1-4972-821E-6996142A51C6__I2112818) of `SELECT` for information on retrieving past data from a table 

  * [Oracle Database Backup and Recovery User's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=BRADV81517) for additional information on using the `FLASHBACK` `TABLE` statement 

Prerequisites

To flash back a table to an earlier SCN or timestamp, you must have either the
`FLASHBACK` object privilege on the table or the `FLASHBACK` `ANY` `TABLE`
system privilege. In addition, you must have the `READ` or `SELECT` object
privilege on the table, and you must have the `INSERT`, `DELETE`, and `ALTER`
object privileges on the table.

Row movement must be enabled for all tables in the Flashback list unless you
are flashing back the table `TO` `BEFORE` `DROP`. That operation is called a
flashback drop operation, and it uses dropped data in the recycle bin rather
than undo data. Refer to [row_movement_clause](ALTER-
TABLE.md#GUID-552E7373-BF93-477D-9DA3-B2C9386F2877__I2192391) for
information on enabling row movement.

To flash back a table to a restore point, you must have the `SELECT` `ANY`
`DICTIONARY` or `FLASHBACK` `ANY` `TABLE` system privilege or the
`SELECT_CATALOG_ROLE` role.

To flash back a table to before a `DROP` `TABLE` operation, you need only the
privileges necessary to drop the table.

Syntax

flashback_table::=

![Description of flashback_table.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/flashback_table.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
flashback_table.eps](img_text/flashback_table.md)

Semantics

During an Oracle Flashback Table operation, Oracle Database acquires exclusive
DML locks on all the tables specified in the Flashback list. These locks
prevent any operations on the tables while they are reverting to their earlier
state.

The Flashback Table operation is executed in a single transaction, regardless
of the number of tables specified in the Flashback list. Either all of the
tables revert to the earlier state or none of them do. If the Flashback Table
operation fails on any table, then the entire statement fails.

At the completion of the Flashback Table operation, the data in `table` is
consistent with `table` at the earlier time. However, `FLASHBACK` `TABLE` `TO`
`SCN` or `TIMESTAMP` does not preserve rowids, and `FLASHBACK` `TABLE` `TO`
`BEFORE` `DROP` does not recover referential constraints.

Oracle Database does not revert statistics associated with `table` to their
earlier form. Indexes on `table` that exist currently are reverted and reflect
the state of the table at the Flashback point. If the index exists now but did
not yet exist at the Flashback point, then the database updates the index to
reflect the state of the table at the Flashback point. However, indexes that
were dropped during the interval between the Flashback point and the current
time are not restored.

schema

Specify the schema containing the table. If you omit `schema`, then the
database assumes the table is in your own schema.

table

Specify the name of one or more tables containing data you want to revert to
an earlier version.

Restrictions on Flashing Back Tables

This statement is subject to the following restrictions:

  * Flashback Table operations are not valid for the following type objects: tables that are part of a cluster, child tables using reference partitioning, materialized views, Advanced Queuing (AQ) tables, static data dictionary tables, system tables, remote tables, object tables, nested tables, or individual table partitions or subpartitions.

  * The following DDL operations change the structure of a table, so that you cannot subsequently use the `TO` `SCN` or `TO` `TIMESTAMP` clause to flash the table back to a time preceding the operation: upgrading, moving, or truncating a table; adding a constraint to a table, adding a table to a cluster; modifying or dropping a column; changing a column encryption key; adding, dropping, merging, splitting, coalescing, or truncating a partition or subpartition (with the exception of adding a range partition). 

TO SCN Clause

Specify the system change number (SCN) corresponding to the point in time to
which you want to return the table. The `expr` must evaluate to a number
representing a valid SCN.

TO TIMESTAMP Clause

Specify a timestamp value corresponding to the point in time to which you want
to return the table. The `expr` must evaluate to a valid timestamp in the
past. The table will be flashed back to a time within approximately 3 seconds
of the specified timestamp.

TO RESTORE POINT Clause

Specify a restore point to which you want to flash back the table. The restore
point must already have been created.

See Also:

[CREATE RESTORE POINT](CREATE-RESTORE-POINT.md#GUID-
AD0FB693-7C28-4908-A870-BA884B320575) for information on creating restore
points

ENABLE | DISABLE TRIGGERS

By default, Oracle Database disables all enabled triggers defined on `table`
during the Flashback Table operation and then reenables them after the
Flashback Table operation is complete. Specify `ENABLE` `TRIGGERS` if you want
to override this default behavior and keep the triggers enabled during the
Flashback process.

This clause affects only those database triggers defined on `table` that are
already enabled. To enable currently disabled triggers selectively, use the
`ALTER` `TABLE` ... `enable_disable_clause` before you issue the `FLASHBACK`
`TABLE` statement with the `ENABLE` `TRIGGERS` clause.

TO BEFORE DROP Clause

Use this clause to retrieve from the recycle bin a table that has been
dropped, along with all possible dependent objects. The table must have
resided in a locally managed tablespace other than the `SYSTEM` tablespace.

See Also:

  * [Oracle Database Administrator's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN01511) for information on the recycle bin and naming conventions for objects in the recycle bin 

  * [PURGE](PURGE.md#GUID-9257F773-E019-4464-80F4-F5AB61D7D9B6) for information on removing objects permanently from the recycle bin 

You can specify either the original user-specified name of the table or the
system-generated name Oracle Database assigned to the object when it was
dropped.

  * System-generated recycle bin object names are unique. Therefore, if you specify the system-generated name, then the database retrieves that specified object.

To see the contents of your recycle bin, query the `USER_RECYCLEBIN` data
dictionary view. You can use the `RECYCLEBIN` synonym instead. The following
two statements return the same rows:

    
        SELECT * FROM RECYCLEBIN;
    SELECT * FROM USER_RECYCLEBIN;
    

  * If you specify the user-specified name, and if the recycle bin contains more than one object of that name, then the database retrieves the object that was moved to the recycle bin most recently. If you want to retrieve an older version of the table, then do one of these things:

    * Specify the system-generated recycle bin name of the table you want to retrieve.

    * Issue additional `FLASHBACK` `TABLE` ... `TO` `BEFORE` `DROP` statements until you retrieve the table you want. 

Oracle Database attempts to preserve the original table name. If a new table
of the same name has been created in the same schema since the original table
was dropped, then the database returns an error unless you also specify the
`RENAME` `TO` clause.

RENAME TO Clause

Use this clause to specify a new name for the table being retrieved from the
recycle bin.

Notes on Flashing Back Dropped Tables

The following notes apply to flashing back dropped tables:

  * Oracle Database retrieves all indexes defined on the table retrieved from the recycle bin except for bitmap join indexes and domain indexes. (Bitmap join indexes and domain indexes are not put in the recycle bin during a `DROP` `TABLE` operation, so cannot be retrieved.) 

  * The database also retrieves all triggers and constraints defined on the table except for referential integrity constraints that reference other tables. 

The retrieved indexes, triggers, and constraints have recycle bin names.
Therefore it is advisable to query the `USER_RECYCLEBIN` view before issuing a
`FLASHBACK` `TABLE` ... `TO` `BEFORE` `DROP` statement so that you can rename
the retrieved triggers and constraints to more usable names.

  * When you drop a table, all materialized view logs defined on the table are also dropped but are not placed in the recycle bin. Therefore, the materialized view logs cannot be flashed back along with the table.

  * When you drop a table, any indexes on the table are dropped and put into the recycle bin along with the table. If subsequent space pressures arise, then the database reclaims space from the recycle bin by first purging indexes. In this case, when you flash back the table, you may not get back all of the indexes that were defined on the table.

  * You cannot flash back a table if it has been purged, either by a user or by Oracle Database as a result of some space reclamation operation.

Examples

Restoring a Table to an Earlier State: Examples

The examples below create a new table, `employees_test`, with row movement
enabled, update values within the new table, and issue the `FLASHBACK` `TABLE`
statement.

Create table `employees_test`, with row movement enabled, from table
`employees` of the sample `hr` schema:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE employees_test 
      AS SELECT * FROM employees;
    

As a benchmark, list those salaries less than 2500:

    
    
    SELECT salary
      FROM employees_test
      WHERE salary < 2500;
    
        SALARY
    ----------
          2400
          2200
          2100
          2400
          2200
    

Note:

To allow time for the SCN to propagate to the mapping table used by the
`FLASHBACK` `TABLE` statement, wait a minimum of 5 minutes prior to issuing
the following statement. This wait would not be necessary if a previously
existing table were being used in this example.

Enable row movement for the table:

    
    
    ALTER TABLE employees_test
       ENABLE ROW MOVEMENT;
    

Issue a 10% salary increase to those employees earning less than 2500:

    
    
    UPDATE employees_test
      SET salary = salary * 1.1
      WHERE salary < 2500;
    
    5 rows updated.
    COMMIT;
    

As a second benchmark, list those salaries that remain less than 2500
following the 10% increase:

    
    
    SELECT salary
      FROM employees_test
      WHERE salary < 2500;
    
        SALARY
    ----------
          2420
          2310
          2420
      

Restore the table `employees_test` to its state prior to the current system
time. The unrealistic duration of 1 minute is used so that you can test this
series of examples quickly. Under normal circumstances a much greater interval
would have elapsed.

    
    
    FLASHBACK TABLE employees_test
      TO TIMESTAMP (SYSTIMESTAMP - INTERVAL '1' minute);
    

List those salaries less than 2500. After the `FLASHBACK` `TABLE` statement
issued above, this list should match the list in the first benchmark.

    
    
    SELECT salary
      FROM employees_test
      WHERE salary < 2500;
    
        SALARY
    ----------
          2400
          2200
          2100
          2400
          2200

Retrieving a Dropped Table: Example

If you accidentally drop the `pm.print_media` table and want to retrieve it,
then issue the following statement:

    
    
    FLASHBACK TABLE print_media TO BEFORE DROP;
    

If another `print_media` table has been created in the `pm` schema, then use
the `RENAME` `TO` clause to rename the retrieved table:

    
    
    FLASHBACK TABLE print_media TO BEFORE DROP RENAME TO print_media_old;
    

If you know that the employees table has been dropped multiple times, and you
want to retrieve the oldest version, then query the `USER_RECYLEBIN` table to
determine the system-generated name, and then use that name in the `FLASHBACK`
`TABLE` statement. (System-generated names in your database will differ from
those shown here.)

    
    
    SELECT object_name, droptime FROM user_recyclebin 
       WHERE original_name = 'PRINT_MEDIA';
    
    OBJECT_NAME                    DROPTIME
    ------------------------------ -------------------
    RB$$45703$TABLE$0              2003-06-03:15:26:39
    RB$$45704$TABLE$0              2003-06-12:12:27:27
    RB$$45705$TABLE$0              2003-07-08:09:28:01


[← Previous](FLASHBACK-DATABASE.md)

[Next →](GRANT.md)
