[Previous](FLASHBACK-TABLE.md) [Next](INSERT.md) JavaScript must be
enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: DROP TABLE to LOCK TABLE](SQL-Statements-DROP-TABLE-to-LOCK-TABLE.md)
  3. GRANT 

## GRANT

Purpose

Use the `GRANT` statement to grant:

  * Administrative privileges to users only (not to roles). [Table 18-1](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__TABLE_PHX_NNG_S1C "Column 1 names system administrative privileges. Column 2 describes the operations authorized by the privilege.")

Refer to the Database Security Guide for more information about administrative
privileges [Managing Administrative
Privileges](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG-GUID-633842B8-4B19-4F96-A757-783BF62825A7)

  * System privileges to users and roles. [Table 18-2](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BABEFFEE "Column 1 names system privileges grouped by database object. Column 2 describes the operations authorized by the system privilege.")

Note that `ANY` system privileges, for example, `SELECT ANY TABLE`, will not
work on `SYS` objects or other dictionary objects.

  * Schema privileges to users and roles. [Table 18-3](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__TABLE_FGK_Y41_M5B "Column 1 names the schema privilege. Column 2 describes the operations authorized by the schema privilege.")

  * Roles to users, roles, and program units. The granted roles can be either user-defined (local or external) or predefined. For a list of predefined roles, refer to [Oracle Database Security Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG4414). 

  * Object privileges for a particular object to users and roles. [Table 18-4](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BGBCIIEG "Column 1 names the object privilege. Column 2 describes the operations authorized by each object privilege.")

Note:

Global roles (created with `IDENTIFIED` `GLOBALLY`) are granted through
enterprise roles and cannot be granted using the `GRANT` statement.

Notes on Authorizing Database Users

You can authorize database users through means other than the database and the
`GRANT` statement.

  * Many Oracle Database privileges are granted through supplied PL/SQL and Java packages. For information on those privileges, refer to the documentation for the appropriate package.

  * Some operating systems have facilities that let you grant roles to Oracle Database users with the initialization parameter `OS_ROLES`. If you choose to grant roles to users through operating system facilities, then you cannot also grant roles to users with the `GRANT` statement, although you can use the `GRANT` statement to grant system privileges to users and system privileges and roles to other roles. 

Note on Oracle Automatic Storage Management

A user authenticated `AS` `SYSASM` can use this statement to grant the
administrative privileges `SYSASM`, `SYSOPER`, and `SYSDBA` to a user in the
Oracle ASM password file of the current node.

Note on Editionable Objects

A `GRANT` operation to grant object privileges on an editionable object
actualizes the object in the current edition. See [Oracle Database Development
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADFNS99922) for more information about editions and
editionable objects.

See Also:

  * [CREATE USER](CREATE-USER.md#GUID-F0246961-558F-480B-AC0F-14B50134621C) and [CREATE ROLE](CREATE-ROLE.md#GUID-B2252DC5-5AE7-49B7-9048-98062993E450) for definitions of local, global, and external privileges 

  * [Oracle Database Security Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG003) for information about other authorization methods and for information about [privileges](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG004)

  * [REVOKE](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-BAA6B957E866) for information on revoking grants 

Prerequisites

To grant a system privilege, one of the following conditions must be met:

  * You must have been granted the `GRANT` `ANY` `PRIVILEGE` system privilege. In this case, if you grant the system privilege to a role, then a user to whom the role has been granted does not have the privilege unless the role is enabled in user's session. 

  * You must have been granted the system privilege with the `ADMIN` `OPTION`. In this case, if you grant the system privilege to a role, then a user to whom the role has been granted has the privilege regardless whether the role is enabled in the user's session. 

To grant a role to a user or another role, you must have been directly granted
the role with the `ADMIN` `OPTION`, or you must have been granted the `GRANT`
`ANY` `ROLE` system privilege, or you must have created the role.

To grant a role to a program unit in your own schema, you must have been
directly granted the role with either the `ADMIN` `OPTION` or the `DELEGATE`
`OPTION`, or you must have been granted the `GRANT` `ANY` `ROLE` system
privilege, or you must have created the role.

To grant a role to a program unit in another user's schema, you must be the
user `SYS` and the role must have been created by the schema owner or directly
granted to the schema owner.

To grant an object privilege on a user, by specifying the `ON` `USER` clause
of the `on_object_clause`, you must be the user on whom the privilege is
granted, or you must have been granted the object privilege on that user with
the `WITH` `GRANT` `OPTION`, or you must have been granted the `GRANT` `ANY`
`OBJECT` `PRIVILEGE` system privilege. If you can grant an object privilege on
a user only because you have the `GRANT` `ANY` `OBJECT` `PRIVILEGE`, then the
`GRANTOR` column of the `*_TAB_PRIVS` views displays the user on whom the
privilege is granted rather than the user who issued the `GRANT` statement.

To grant an object privilege on all other types of objects, you must own the
object, or the owner of the object must have granted you the object privileges
with the `WITH` `GRANT` `OPTION`, or you must have been granted the `GRANT`
`ANY` `OBJECT` `PRIVILEGE` system privilege. If you have the `GRANT` `ANY`
`OBJECT` `PRIVILEGE`, then you can grant the object privilege only if the
object owner could have granted the same object privilege. In this case, the
`GRANTOR` column of the `*_TAB_PRIVS` views displays the object owner rather
than the user who issued the `GRANT` statement.

You can revoke privileges on an object if you have the `GRANT` `ANY` object
privilege. This does not apply to dictionary protected schemas. The `ANY`
keyword in reference to a system privilege means that the user can perform the
privilege on any objects owned by any user except for `SYS`.

To specify the `CONTAINER` clause, you must be connected to a multitenant
container database (CDB). To specify `CONTAINER` `=` `ALL`, the current
container must be the root.

Syntax

grant::=

![Description of grant.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/grant.gif)  
[Description of the illustration grant.eps](img_text/grant.md)

([grant_system_privileges::=](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2183500),
[grant_schema_privileges::=](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__SECTION_DK5_ZLG_SYB),[grant_object_privileges::=](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2123595),
[grant_roles_to_programs::=](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BGEJAHIE))

grant_system_privileges::=

![Description of grant_system_privileges.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/grant_system_privileges.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
grant_system_privileges.eps](img_text/grant_system_privileges.md)

([grantee_clause::=](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2062307),
[grantee_identified_by::=](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BGBEJFGF))

grant_schema_privileges::=

  

![Description of grant_schema_privileges.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/grant_schema_privileges.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
grant_schema_privileges.eps](img_text/grant_schema_privileges.md)

  

grantee_clause::=

![Description of grantee_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/grantee_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
grantee_clause.eps](img_text/grantee_clause.md)

grantee_identified_by::=

![Description of grantee_identified_by.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/grantee_identified_by.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
grantee_identified_by.eps](img_text/grantee_identified_by.md)

grant_object_privileges::=

![Description of grant_object_privileges.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/grant_object_privileges.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
grant_object_privileges.eps](img_text/grant_object_privileges.md)

([on_object_clause::=](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2123618),
[grantee_clause::=](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2062307))

on_object_clause::=

![Description of on_object_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/on_object_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
on_object_clause.eps](img_text/on_object_clause.md)

grant_roles_to_programs::=

![Description of grant_roles_to_programs.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/grant_roles_to_programs.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
grant_roles_to_programs.eps](img_text/grant_roles_to_programs.md)

program_unit::=

![Description of program_unit.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/program_unit.gif)  
[Description of the illustration program_unit.eps](img_text/program_unit.md)

Semantics

grant_system_privileges

Use these clauses to grant system privileges.

system_privilege

Specify the system privilege you want to grant. [Table
18-2](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BABEFFEE "Column 1
names system privileges grouped by database object. Column 2 describes the
operations authorized by the system privilege.") lists the system privileges,
organized by the database object operated upon.

  * If you grant a privilege to a user, then the database adds the privilege to the user's privilege domain. The user can immediately exercise the privilege. Oracle recommends that you only grant the `ANY` privileges to trusted users. 

  * If you grant a privilege to a role, then the database adds the privilege to the privilege domain of the role. Users who have been granted and have enabled the role can immediately exercise the privilege. Other users who have been granted the role can enable the role and exercise the privilege. 

See Also:

[Granting a System Privilege to a User:
Example](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2125913) and
"[Granting System Privileges to a Role:
Example](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2125929)"

  * If you grant a privilege to `PUBLIC`, then the database adds the privilege to the privilege domains of each user. All users can immediately perform operations authorized by the privilege. Oracle recommends against granting system privileges to `PUBLIC`. 

role

Specify the role you want to grant. You can grant an Oracle Database
predefined role or a user-defined role.

  * If you grant a role to a user, then the database makes the role available to the user. The user can immediately enable the role and exercise the privileges in the privilege domain of the role. 

In the case of a secure application role, you need not grant such a role
directly to the user. You can let the associated PL/SQL package do this,
assuming the user passes appropriate security policies. For more information,
see the `CREATE` `ROLE` semantics for [USING package](CREATE-
ROLE.md#GUID-B2252DC5-5AE7-49B7-9048-98062993E450__BABCJFBJ) and [Oracle
Database Security Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG005)

  * If you grant a role to another role, then the database adds the privilege domain of the granted role to the privilege domain of the grantee role. Users who have been granted the grantee role can enable it and exercise the privileges in the granted role's privilege domain. 

  * If you grant a role to `PUBLIC`, then the database makes the role available to all users. All users can immediately enable the role and exercise the privileges in the privilege domain of the role. 

Note:

Unlimited tablespace is not granted to the DBA role, but when a grant is
executed to grant DBA to a user, unlimited tablespace is granted as part of
the same grant, provided the user executing the `GRANT` command has unlimited
tablespace granted with the `ADMIN` or `GRANT ANY PRIVILEGE` system privilege
.

ALL PRIVILEGES

Specify `ALL` `PRIVILEGES` to grant all of the system privileges listed in
[Table 18-2](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BABEFFEE
"Column 1 names system privileges grouped by database object. Column 2
describes the operations authorized by the system privilege."), except the
`SELECT` `ANY` `DICTIONARY`, `ALTER` `DATABASE` `LINK`, and `ALTER` `PUBLIC`
`DATABASE` `LINK` privileges.

However, grant and revoke `ALL PRIVILEGES` do not apply to `ADMINISTER KEY
MANAGEMENT`. Granting `ALL PRIVILEGES` does not grant `ADMINISTER KEY
MANAGEMENT`. Similarly, revoking `ALL PRIVILEGES` does not revoke `ADMINISTER
KEY MANAGEMENT`.

See Also:

  * [Oracle Database Security Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG4414) for information on the Oracle predefined roles 

  * "[Granting a Role to a Role: Example](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2125988)"

  * [CREATE ROLE](CREATE-ROLE.md#GUID-B2252DC5-5AE7-49B7-9048-98062993E450) for information on creating a user-defined role 

grantee_clause

Use the `grantee_clause` to specify the users or roles to which the system
privilege, role, or object privilege is granted.

PUBLIC

Specify `PUBLIC` to grant the privileges to all users. Oracle recommends
against granting system privileges to `PUBLIC`.

Restriction on Grantees

A user, role, or `PUBLIC` cannot appear more than once in the
`grantee_clause.`

grantee_identified_by

The `grantee_identified_by` clause lets you assign passwords to users when
granting them system privileges and roles. You must specify an equal number of
users and passwords. The first password is assigned to the first user, the
second password is assigned to the second user, and so on. If a specified user
exists, then the database resets the user's password. If a specified user does
not exist, then the database creates the user with the password.

You can set the password to a maximum length of 1024 bytes.

See Also:

[CREATE USER](CREATE-USER.md#GUID-F0246961-558F-480B-AC0F-14B50134621C) for
restrictions on usernames and passwords and "[Assigning User Passwords When
Granting a System Privilege:
Example](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BGBDFBGH)"

WITH ADMIN OPTION

Specify `WITH` `ADMIN` `OPTION` to enable the grantee to:

  * Grant the privilege or role to another user or role, unless the role is a `GLOBAL` role 

  * Revoke the privilege or role from another user or role 

  * Alter the privilege or role to change the authorization needed to access it 

  * Drop the privilege or role 

  * Grant the role to a program unit in the grantee's schema.

  * Revoke the role from a program unit in the grantee's schema.

If you grant a system privilege or role to a user without specifying `WITH`
`ADMIN` `OPTION`, and then subsequently grant the privilege or role to the
user `WITH` `ADMIN` `OPTION`, then the user has the `ADMIN` `OPTION` on the
privilege or role.

To revoke the `ADMIN` `OPTION` on a system privilege or role from a user, you
must revoke the privilege or role from the user altogether and then grant the
privilege or role to the user without the `ADMIN` `OPTION`.

See Also:

"[Granting a Role with the ADMIN OPTION:
Example](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2125940)"

WITH DELEGATE OPTION

You can specify this clause only when granting a role to a user.

Specify `WITH` `DELEGATE` `OPTION` to enable the grantee to:

  * Grant the role to a program unit in the grantee's schema

  * Revoke the role from a program unit in the grantee's schema

If you grant a role to a user without specifying `WITH` `DELEGATE` `OPTION`,
and then subsequently grant the role to the user `WITH` `DELEGATE` `OPTION`,
then the user has the `DELEGATE` `OPTION` on the role.

To revoke the `DELEGATE` `OPTION` on a role from a user, you must revoke the
role from the user altogether and then grant the role to the user without the
`DELEGATE` `OPTION`.

See Also:

  * "[Granting a Role with the DELEGATE OPTION: Example](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BGBIHJFI)"

  * The [grant_roles_to_programs](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BGEDDFEF) clause for more information on granting roles to program units 

Restrictions on Granting System Privileges and Roles

Privileges and roles are subject to the following restrictions:

  * A privilege or role cannot appear more than once in the list of privileges and roles to be granted. 

  * You cannot grant a role to itself. 

  * You cannot grant a role `IDENTIFIED` `GLOBALLY` to anything. 

  * You cannot grant a role `IDENTIFIED` `EXTERNALLY` to a global user or global role. 

  * You cannot grant roles circularly. For example, if you grant the role `banker` to the role `teller`, then you cannot subsequently grant `teller` to `banker`. 

  * You cannot grant an `IDENTIFIED` `BY` role, `IDENTIFIED` `USING` role, or `IDENTIFIED` `EXTERNALLY` role to another role. 

grant_schema_privileges

You can grant a schema level privilege to any user or any role if you are a
user who :

  * Owns the schema.

  * Has a schema level privilege `WITH ADMIN OPTION`. 

  * Has the `GRANT ANY SCHEMA PRIVILEGE` system privilege. If you specify `ALL PRIVILEGES` , all the schema level privileges in [Table 18-3](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__TABLE_FGK_Y41_M5B "Column 1 names the schema privilege. Column 2 describes the operations authorized by the schema privilege.") are granted. 

You cannot grant schema privileges on the `SYS` schema.

See Also:

[Schema Privileges to Simplify Access Control in the Oracle Database Security
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG-GUID-671C3472-FC6F-4E63-B5BB-6DC9D2ABC0D6)

grant_object_privileges

Use these clauses to grant object privileges.

object_privilege

Specify the object privilege you want to grant. [Table
18-4](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BGBCIIEG "Column 1
names the object privilege. Column 2 describes the operations authorized by
each object privilege.") lists the object privileges, organized by the type of
object on which they can be granted. When you grant an object privilege on a
editionable object, either to a user or to a role, the object is actualized in
the edition in which the grant is made. Refer to [CREATE EDITION](CREATE-
EDITION.md#GUID-6CF92CA1-CAF7-4967-9B34-C02D72C23617) for information on
editionable object types and editions.

Note:

To grant `SELECT` on a view to another user, either you must own all of the
objects underlying the view or you must have been granted the `SELECT` object
privilege `WITH` `GRANT` `OPTION` on all of those underlying objects. This is
true even if the grantee already has `SELECT` privileges on those underlying
objects.

To grant `READ` on a view to another user, either you must own all of the
objects underlying the view or you must have been granted the `READ` or
`SELECT` object privilege `WITH` `GRANT` `OPTION` on all of those underlying
objects. This is true even if the grantee already has the `READ` or `SELECT`
privilege on those underlying objects.

Restriction on Object Privileges

A privilege cannot appear more than once in the list of privileges to be
granted.

ALL [PRIVILEGES]

Specify `ALL` to grant all the privileges for the object that you have been
granted with the `GRANT` `OPTION`. The user who owns the schema containing an
object automatically has all privileges on the object with the `GRANT`
`OPTION`. The keyword `PRIVILEGES` is provided for semantic clarity and is
optional.

column

Specify the table or view column on which privileges are to be granted. You
can specify columns only when granting the `INSERT`, `REFERENCES`, or `UPDATE`
privilege. If you do not list columns, then the grantee has the specified
privilege on all columns in the table or view.

For information on existing column object grants, query the `USER_`, `ALL_`,
or `DBA_COL_PRIVS` data dictionary view.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN002) for information on the data dictionary views
and "[Granting Multiple Object Privileges on Individual Columns:
Example](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2126048)"

on_object_clause

The `on_object_clause` identifies the object on which the privileges are
granted. Users, directory objects, editions, data mining models, Java source
and resource schema objects, and SQL translation profiles are identified
separately because they reside in separate namespaces.

See Also:

"[Granting Object Privileges to a Role:
Example](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2125970)"

object

Specify the schema object on which the privileges are to be granted. If you do
not qualify `object` with `schema`, then the database assumes the object is in
your own schema. The object can be one of the following types:

  * Table, view, or materialized view

  * Sequence

  * Procedure, function, or package

  * User-defined type

  * Synonym for any of the preceding items

  * Directory, library, operator, or indextype

  * Java source, class, or resource

You cannot grant privileges directly to a single partition of a partitioned
table.

See Also:

"[Granting Object Privileges on a Table to a User:
Example](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2126015)",
"[Granting Object Privileges on a View:
Example](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2126026)", and
"[Granting Object Privileges to a Sequence in Another Schema:
Example](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2126037)"

ON USER

Specify the database user you want to grant privileges to.

Restriction on Granting Privileges on Users

You cannot grant privileges on user `PUBLIC`.

See Also:

"[Granting an Object Privilege on a User:
Example](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BGEEJCBE)"

ON DIRECTORY

Specify the name of the directory object on which privileges are to be
granted. You cannot qualify `directory_name` with a schema name.

See Also:

[CREATE DIRECTORY](CREATE-
DIRECTORY.md#GUID-8E9C569A-1B06-42C4-9586-0EF83437001A) and "[Granting an
Object Privilege on a Directory:
Example](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__I2125999)"

ON EDITION

Specify the name of the edition on which the `USE` object privilege is to be
granted. You cannot qualify `edition_name` with a schema name.

ON MINING MODEL

Specify the name of the mining model on which privileges are to be granted. If
you do not qualify `mining_model_name` with `schema`, then the database
assumes that the mining model is in your own schema.

ON JAVA SOURCE | RESOURCE

Specify the name of the Java source or resource schema object on which
privileges are to be granted. If you do not qualify `object` with `schema`,
then the database assumes that the object is in your own schema.

See Also:

[CREATE JAVA](CREATE-JAVA.md#GUID-69E13452-1F91-4F98-B154-CF5B1C198387)

ON SQL TRANSLATION PROFILE

Specify the name of the SQL translation profile on which privileges are to be
granted. If you do not qualify `profile` with `schema`, then the database
assumes that the profile is in your own schema.

WITH HIERARCHY OPTION

Specify `WITH` `HIERARCHY` `OPTION` to grant the specified object privilege on
all subobjects of `object`, such as subviews created under a view, including
subobjects created subsequent to this statement.

This clause is meaningful only in combination with the `READ` or `SELECT`
object privilege.

WITH GRANT OPTION

Specify `WITH` `GRANT` `OPTION` to enable the grantee to grant the object
privileges to other users and roles.

If you grant an object privilege to a user without specifying `WITH` `GRANT`
`OPTION`, and then subsequently grant the privilege to the user `WITH` `GRANT`
`OPTION`, then the user has the `GRANT` `OPTION` on the privilege.

To revoke the `GRANT` `OPTION` on an object privilege from a user, you must
revoke the privilege from the user altogether and then grant the privilege to
the user without the `GRANT` `OPTION`.

Restriction on Granting WITH GRANT OPTION

You can specify `WITH` `GRANT` `OPTION` only when granting to a user or to
`PUBLIC`, not when granting to a role.

grant_roles_to_programs

Use this clause to grant roles to program units. Such roles are called code
based access control (CBAC) roles.

role

Specify the role you want to grant. You can grant an Oracle Database
predefined role or a user-defined role. The role must have been created by or
directly granted to the schema owner of the program unit.

program_unit

Specify the program unit to which the role is to be granted. You can specify a
PL/SQL function, procedure, or package. If you do not specify `schema`, then
Oracle Database assumes the function, procedure, or package is in your own
schema.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Security
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG977) for more information on granting code based
access control roles to program units

CONTAINER Clause

If the current container is a pluggable database (PDB):

  * Specify `CONTAINER` `=` `CURRENT` to locally grant a system privilege, object privilege, or role to a user or role. The privilege or role is granted to the user or role only in the current PDB. 

If the current container is the root:

  * Specify `CONTAINER` `=` `CURRENT` to locally grant a system privilege, object privilege, or role to a common user or common role. The privilege or role is granted to the user or role only in the root. 

  * Specify `CONTAINER` `=` `ALL` to commonly grant a system privilege, object privilege on a common object, or role, to a common user or common role. 

If you omit this clause, then `CONTAINER` `=` `CURRENT` is the default.

Note:

If you specify the `CONTAINER` clause when granting a privilege or role, then
the current container must be the same container and you must specify the same
`CONTAINER` clause when you revoke the privilege or role. Refer to the
[CONTAINER Clause](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-
BAA6B957E866__BGEDBIHI) of the `REVOKE` statement for more information.

Listings of System Administrative, System, Schema, and Object Privileges

Table 18-1 Administrative Privileges

Administrative Privilege Name | Operations Authorized  
---|---  
`SYSBACKUP` |  Perform the following backup and recovery operations: `STARTUP` and `SHUTDOWN`.  `CREATE` `CONTROLFILE`.  `CREATE` `PFILE` and `CREATE` `SPFILE`.  `FLASHBACK` `DATABASE`.  Create, use, view, and drop restore points (including guaranteed restore points). Execute procedures in the `DBMS_DATAPUMP`, `DBMS_PIPE`, `DBMS_TDB`, and `DBMS_TTS` packages.  `SELECT` on `X$` tables, `V$` views, and `GV$` views.  Includes the `ALTER` `DATABASE`, `ALTER` `SESSION`, `ALTER` `SYSTEM`, `ALTER` `TABLESPACE`, `CREATE` `ANY` `CLUSTER`, `CREATE` `ANY` `DIRECTORY`, `CREATE` `ANY` `TABLE`, `CREATE` `SESSION`, `DROP` `DATABASE`, `DROP` `TABLESPACE`, `RESUMABLE`, `SELECT` `ANY` `DICTIONARY`, `SELECT` `ANY` `TRANSACTION`, `UNLIMITED` `TABLESPACE` privileges and the `SELECT_CATALOG_ROLE` role.   
`SYSDBA` |  This is the most powerful administrative privilege. It allows most operations including the ability to view user data. `STARTUP` and `SHUTDOWN`.  `ALTER` `DATABASE`: open, mount, back up, or change character set.  `CREATE` `DATABASE`.  `DROP` `DATABASE`.  `ARCHIVELOG` and `RECOVERY`.  `CREATE` `SPFILE`.  Includes the `RESTRICTED` `SESSION` privilege.   
`SYSDG` |  Perform the following Oracle Data Guard operations: `STARTUP` and `SHUTDOWN`.  `FLASHBACK` `DATABASE`.  Create, use, view, and drop restore points (including guaranteed restore points). `SELECT` on `X$` tables, `V$` views, and `GV$` views.  Includes the `ALTER` `DATABASE`, `ALTER` `SESSION`, `ALTER` `SYSTEM`, `CREATE` `SESSION`, and `SELECT` `ANY` `DICTIONARY` privileges.   
`SYSKM` |  Perform the following encryption key management operations: Connect to the database even if the database is not open. `SELECT` on the following views when the database is open: `V$CLIENT_SECRETS`, `V$ENCRYPTED_TABLESPACES`, `V$ENCRYPTION_KEYS`, `V$ENCRYPTION_WALLET` and `V$WALLET`.  Includes the `ADMINISTER` `KEY` `MANAGEMENT` and `CREATE` `SESSION` privileges.   
`SYSOPER` |  `STARTUP` and `SHUTDOWN` operations.  `ALTER` `DATABASE`: open, mount, or back up.  `ARCHIVELOG` and `RECOVERY`.  `CREATE` `SPFILE`.  Includes the `RESTRICTED` `SESSION` privilege.   
  
Table 18-2 System Privileges (Organized by the Database Object Operated Upon)

System Privilege Name | Operations Authorized  
---|---  
Advisor Framework Privileges: |  All of the advisor framework privileges are part of the DBA role.   
`ADVISOR` |  Access the advisor framework through PL/SQL packages such as `DBMS_ADVISOR` and `DBMS_SQLTUNE`.   
`ADMINISTER SQL TUNING SET` |  Create, drop, select (read), load (write), and delete SQL tuning sets owned by the grantee through the `DBMS_SQLTUNE` package.   
`ADMINISTER ANY SQL TUNING SET` |  Create, drop, select (read), load (write), and delete SQL tuning sets owned by any user through the `DBMS_SQLTUNE` package.   
`CREATE ANY SQL PROFILE` |  Accept a SQL Profile recommended by the SQL Tuning Advisor, which is accessed through Enterprise Manager or by the `DBMS_SQLTUNE` package.  Note: This privilege has been deprecated in favor of `ADMINISTER` `SQL` `MANAGEMENT` `OBJECT`.   
`ALTER ANY SQL PROFILE` |  Alter the attributes of an existing SQL Profile. Note: This privilege has been deprecated in favor of `ADMINISTER` `SQL` `MANAGEMENT` `OBJECT`.   
`DROP ANY SQL PROFILE` |  Drop existing SQL Profiles. Note: This privilege has been deprecated in favor of `ADMINISTER` `SQL` `MANAGEMENT` `OBJECT`.   
`ADMINISTER SQL MANAGEMENT OBJECT` |  Create, alter, and drop SQL Profiles owned by any user through the `DBMS_SQLTUNE` package.   
ANALYTIC VIEWS |  â  
`CREATE ANALYTIC VIEW` |  Create analytic views in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY ANALYTIC VIEW` |  Create analytic views in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS.`  
`ALTER ANY ANALYTIC VIEW` |  Rename analytic views in any schema except `SYS, AUDSYS`.   
`DROP ANY ANALYTIC VIEW` |  Drop analytic views in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS` .   
ATTRIBUTE DIMENSIONS |  â  
`CREATE ATTRIBUTE DIMENSION` |  Create attribute dimensions in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY ATTRIBUTE DIMENSION` |  Create attribute dimensions in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
`ALTER ANY ATTRIBUTE DIMENSION` |  Rename attribute dimensions in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
`DROP ANY ATTRIBUTE DIMENSION` |  Drop attribute dimensions in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
AUDIT: |  â  
`AUDIT ANY` |  Audit an object in any schema, except `SYS,`AUDSYS``, using `AUDIT` `schema_objects` statements.   
`AUDIT SYSTEM` |  Issue `AUDIT` statements.   
`ADMINISTER FINE GRAINED AUDIT POLICY` |  Allow management of fine-grained audit policies   
CLUSTERS: |  â  
`CREATE CLUSTER` |  Create clusters in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY CLUSTER` |  Create clusters in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`. Behaves similarly to `CREATE` `ANY` `TABLE`.   
`ALTER ANY CLUSTER` |  Alter clusters in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`.   
`DROP ANY CLUSTER` |  Drop clusters in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
CONTEXTS: |  â  
`CREATE ANY CONTEXT` |  Create any context namespace.  
`DROP ANY CONTEXT` |  Drop any context namespace.  
DATA REDACTION: |  â  
`EXEMPT` `REDACTION` `POLICY` |  Bypass any existing Oracle Data Redaction policies and view actual data from tables or views on which Data Redaction policies are defined.  
`ADMINISTER` `REDACTION` `POLICY` |  Allow management of Redaction policies .  
DATABASE: |  â  
`ALTER DATABASE` |  Alter the database.  
`ALTER SYSTEM` |  Issue `ALTER` `SYSTEM` statements.   
DATABASE LINKS: |  â  
`CREATE DATABASE LINK` |  Create private database links in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE PUBLIC DATABASE LINK` |  Create public database links.  
`ALTER` `DATABASE` `LINK` |  Modify a fixed-user database link when the password of the connection or authentication user changes.  
`ALTER` `PUBLIC` `DATABASE` `LINK` |  Modify a public fixed-user database link when the password of the connection or authentication user changes.  
`DROP PUBLIC DATABASE LINK` |  Drop public database links.  
DEBUGGING: |  â  
`DEBUG` `CONNECT` `SESSION` |  Connect the current session to a debugger.  
`DEBUG` `ANY` `PROCEDURE` |  Debug all PL/SQL and Java code in any database object. Display information on all SQL statements executed by the application. Note: Granting this privilege is equivalent to granting the `DEBUG` object privilege on all applicable objects in the database.   
DICTIONARIES: |  â  
`ANALYZE` `ANY` `DICTIONARY` |  Analyze any data dictionary object.  
DIMENSIONS: |  â  
`CREATE DIMENSION` |  Create dimensions in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY DIMENSION` |  Create dimensions in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
`ALTER ANY DIMENSION` |  Alter dimensions in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
`DROP ANY DIMENSION` |  Drop dimensions in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
DIRECTORIES: |  â  
`CREATE ANY DIRECTORY` |  Create directory database objects.  
`DROP ANY DIRECTORY` |  Drop directory database objects.  
DOMAINS: |  â  
`CREATE DOMAIN` |  Create a domain in your own schema.  
`CREATE ANY DOMAIN` |  Create a domain in any schema.  
`ALTER ANY DOMAIN` |  Alter a domain in any schema.  
`DROP ANY DOMAIN` |  Drop a domain in any schema.  
`EXECUTE ANY DOMAIN` |  Refer to a domain in any schema.  
EDITIONS:  |  â  
`CREATE ANY EDITION` |  Create editions.  
`DROP ANY EDITION` |  Drop editions.  
FLASHBACK DATA ARCHIVES: |  â  
`FLASHBACK` `ARCHIVE` `ADMINISTER` |  Create, alter, or drop any flashback data archive.  
HIERARCHIES |  â  
`CREATE HIERARCHY` |  Create hierarchies in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY HIERARCHY` |  Create hierarchies in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
`ALTER ANY HIERARCHY` |  Rename hierarchies in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
`DROP ANY HIERARCHY` |  Drop hierarchies in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`.   
INDEXES: |  â  
`CREATE ANY INDEX` |  Create in any schema, except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`, a domain index or an index on any table in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`ALTER ANY INDEX` |  Alter indexes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY INDEX` |  Drop indexes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
INDEXTYPES: |  â  
`CREATE INDEXTYPE` |  Create indextypes in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY INDEXTYPE` |  Create indextypes in any schema except `SYS` and create comments on indextypes in any schema except `SYS`.   
`ALTER ANY INDEXTYPE` |  Modify indextypes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY INDEXTYPE` |  Drop indextypes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`EXECUTE ANY INDEXTYPE` |  Reference indextypes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
JOB SCHEDULER OBJECTS:  |  The following privileges are needed to execute procedures in the `DBMS_SCHEDULER` package. This privileges do not apply to lightweight jobs, which are not database objects. Refer to [Oracle Database Administrator's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN035) for more information about lightweight jobs.   
`CREATE JOB` |  Create, alter, or drop jobs, chains, schedules, programs, credentials, resource objects, or incompatibility resource objects in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY JOB` |  Create, alter, or drop jobs, chains, schedules, programs, credentials, resource objects, or incompatibility resource objects in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  Note: This extremely powerful privilege allows the grantee to execute code as any other user. It should be granted with caution.   
`CREATE EXTERNAL JOB` |  Create in the grantee's schema an executable scheduler job that runs on the operating system.  
`EXECUTE ANY CLASS` |  Specify any job class in a job in the grantee's schema.  
`EXECUTE ANY PROGRAM` |  Use any program in a job in the grantee's schema.  
`MANAGE SCHEDULER` |  Create, alter, or drop any job class, window, or window group.  
`USE ANY JOB RESOURCE` |  Associate any schedule resource object with any program or job in the granteeâs schema.  
KEY MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK: |  â  
`ADMINISTER` `KEY` `MANAGEMENT` |  Manage keys and keystores.  
LIBRARIES: |  Caution: `CREATE` `LIBARARY`, `CREATE` `ANY` `LIBRARY`, `ALTER` `ANY` `LIBRARY`, and `EXECUTE` `ANY` `LIBRARY` are extremely powerful privileges that should be granted only to trusted users. Refer to [Oracle Database Security Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG499) before granting these privileges.   
`CREATE LIBRARY` |  Create external procedure or function libraries in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY LIBRARY` |  Create external procedure or function libraries in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`ALTER ANY LIBRARY` |  Alter external procedure or function libraries in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY LIBRARY` |  Drop external procedure or function libraries in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`EXECUTE ANY LIBRARY` |  Use external procedure or function libraries in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
LOGMINER: |  â  
`LOGMINING` |  Execute procedures in the `DBMS_LOGMNR` package in a CDB or a PDB. Query the contents of the `V$LOGMNR_CONTENTS` view.   
MATERIALIZED VIEWS:  |  â  
`CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW` |  Create materialized views in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY MATERIALIZED VIEW` |  Create materialized views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`ALTER ANY MATERIALIZED VIEW` |  Alter materialized views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY MATERIALIZED VIEW` |  Drop materialized views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`QUERY REWRITE` |  This privilege has been deprecated. No privileges are needed for a user to enable rewrite for a materialized view that references tables or views in the user's own schema.  
`GLOBAL QUERY REWRITE` |  Enable rewrite using a materialized view when that materialized view references tables or views in any schema except `SYS`.   
`ON COMMIT REFRESH` |  Create a refresh-on-commit materialized view on any table in the database. Alter a refresh-on-demand materialized view on any table in the database to refresh-on-commit.  
`FLASHBACK ANY TABLE` |  Issue a SQL Flashback Query on any table, view, or materialized view in any schema except `SYS`. This privilege is not needed to execute the `DBMS_FLASHBACK` procedures.   
MINING MODELS: |  â  
`CREATE MINING MODEL` |  Create mining models in the grantee's schema using the `DBMS_DATA_MINING.CREATE_MODEL` procedure.   
`CREATE ANY MINING MODEL` |  Create mining models in any schema, except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`, using the `DBMS_DATA_MINING.CREATE_MODEL` procedure.   
`ALTER ANY MINING MODEL` |  Change the mining model name or the associated cost matrix of a model in any schema, except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`, using the applicable `DBMS_DATA_MINING` procedures.   
`DROP ANY MINING MODEL` |  Drop mining models in any schema, except `SYS,`AUDSYS``, using the `DBMS_DATA_MINING.DROP_MODEL` procedure.   
`SELECT ANY MINING MODEL` |  Score or view mining models in any schema except `SYS, `AUDSYS``. Scoring is done either with the `PREDICTION` family of SQL functions or with the `DBMS_DATA_MINING.APPLY` procedure. Viewing the model is done with the `DBMS_DATA_MINING.GET_MODEL_DETAILS_*` procedures.   
`COMMENT ANY MINING MODEL` |  Create comments on mining models in any schema, except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`, using the SQL `COMMENT` statement.   
OLAP CUBES: |  The following privileges are valid when you are using Oracle Database with the OLAP option.  
`CREATE CUBE` |  Create OLAP cubes in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY CUBE` |  Create OLAP cubes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`ALTER ANY CUBE` |  Alter OLAP cubes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY CUBE` |  Drop OLAP cubes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`SELECT ANY CUBE` |  Query or view OLAP cubes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`UPDATE ANY CUBE` |  Update OLAP cubes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
OLAP CUBE MEASURE FOLDERS: |  The following privileges are valid when you are using Oracle Database with the OLAP option.  
`CREATE MEASURE FOLDER` |  Create OLAP measure folders in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY MEASURE FOLDER` |  Create OLAP measure folders in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DELETE ANY MEASURE FOLDER` |  Delete a measure from an OLAP measure folder in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY MEASURE FOLDER` |  Drop OLAP measure folders in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`INSERT ANY MEASURE FOLDER` |  Insert a measure into an OLAP measure folder in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
OLAP CUBE DIMENSIONS: |  The following privileges are valid when you are using Oracle Database with the OLAP option.  
`CREATE CUBE DIMENSION` |  Create OLAP cube dimension in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  Create OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`ALTER ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  Alter OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DELETE ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  Delete from OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS`,` AUDSYS`.   
`DROP ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  Drop OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`INSERT ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  Insert into OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`SELECT ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  View or query OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`UPDATE ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  Update OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
OLAP CUBE BUILD PROCESSES: |  â  
`CREATE CUBE BUILD PROCESS` |  Create OLAP cube build processes in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY CUBE BUILD PROCESS` |  Create OLAP cube build processes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY CUBE BUILD PROCESS` |  Drop OLAP cube build processes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`UPDATE ANY CUBE BUILD PROCESS` |  Update OLAP cube build processes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
OPERATORS: |  â  
`CREATE OPERATOR` |  Create an operator and its bindings in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY OPERATOR` |  Create an operator and its bindings in any schema and create a comment on an operator in any schema.  
```ALTER ANY OPERATOR` |  Modify operators in any schema.  
`DROP ANY OPERATOR` |  Drop operators in any schema.  
`EXECUTE ANY OPERATOR` |  Reference operators in any schema.  
OUTLINES: |  â  
`CREATE ANY OUTLINE` |  Create public outlines that can be used in any schema that uses outlines.  
`ALTER ANY OUTLINE` |  Modify outlines.  
`DROP ANY OUTLINE` |  Drop outlines.  
PDB LOCKDOWN PROFILES: |  â  
`CREATE LOCKDOWN PROFILE` |  Create PDB lockdown profiles.  
`ALTER LOCKDOWN PROFILE` |  Alter PDB lockdown profiles.  
`DROP LOCKDOWN PROFILE` |  Drop PDB lockdown profiles.  
PLAN MANAGEMENT: |  â  
`ADMINISTER SQL MANAGEMENT OBJECT` |  Perform controlled manipulation of plan history and SQL plan baselines maintained for various SQL statements.  
PLUGGABLE DATABASES: |  â  
`CREATE` `PLUGGABLE` `DATABASE` |  Create a PDB. Plug in a PDB that was previously unplugged from a CDB. Clone a PDB.  
`SET` `CONTAINER` |  Allow a common user to switch into the container for which this privilege was granted. This privilege can be granted only to a common user or common role.  
PROCEDURES: |  â  
`CREATE PROCEDURE` |  Create stored procedures, functions, or packages in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY PROCEDURE` |  Create stored procedures, functions, or packages in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`ALTER ANY PROCEDURE` |  Alter stored procedures, functions, or packages in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY PROCEDURE` |  Drop stored procedures, functions, or packages in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`EXECUTE ANY PROCEDURE` |  Execute procedures or functions, either standalone or packaged. Reference public package variables in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`INHERIT ANY REMOTE PRIVILEGES` |  Execute definer's rights procedures or functions that contain current user database links.  
PROFILES: |  â  
`CREATE PROFILE` |  Create profiles.  
`ALTER PROFILE` |  Alter profiles.  
`DROP PROFILE` |  Drop profiles.  
PROPERTY GRAPHS: |  â  
`CREATE PROPERTY GRAPH` |  Create property graph in the granteeâs schema.  
`CREATE ANY PROPERTY GRAPH` |  Create property graph in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`.   
`ALTER ANY PROPERTY GRAPH` |  Alter property graph in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`.   
`DROP ANY PROPERTY GRAPH` |  Drop property graph in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`.   
`READ ANY PROPERTY GRAPH` |  Query property graph in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`.   
ROLES: |  â  
`CREATE ROLE` |  Create roles.  
`ALTER ANY ROLE` |  Alter any role in the database.  
`DROP ANY ROLE` |  Drop roles.  
`GRANT ANY ROLE` |  Grant any role in the database.  
ROLLBACK SEGMENTS: |  â  
`CREATE ROLLBACK SEGMENT` |  Create rollback segments.  
`ALTER ROLLBACK SEGMENT` |  Alter rollback segments.  
`DROP ROLLBACK SEGMENT` |  Drop rollback segments.  
SEQUENCES: |  â  
`CREATE SEQUENCE` |  Create sequences in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY SEQUENCE` |  Create sequences in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`ALTER ANY SEQUENCE` |  Alter sequences in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY SEQUENCE` |  Drop sequences in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`SELECT ANY SEQUENCE` |  Reference sequences in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
SESSIONS: |  â  
`CREATE SESSION` |  Connect to the database.  
`ALTER RESOURCE COST` |  Set costs for session resources.  
`ALTER SESSION` |  Enable and disable the SQL trace facility.  
`RESTRICTED SESSION` |  Logon after the instance is started using the SQL*Plus `STARTUP` `RESTRICT` statement.   
SNAPSHOTS: |  See `MATERIALIZED` `VIEWS`  
SQL Firewall Administration |  –  
`ADMINISTER SQL FIREWALL` |  This system privilege is required to execute the PL/SQL procedures in `SYS.DBMS_SQL_FIREWALL` package. Just like any other system privileges, SYS is assumed to have this privilege. However this system privilege will not be granted to the DBA role by default.   
SQL TRANSLATION PROFILES: |  â  
`CREATE` `SQL` `TRANSLATION` `PROFILE` |  Create SQL translation profiles in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE` `ANY` `SQL` `TRANSLATION` `PROFILE` |  Create SQL translation profiles in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`ALTER` `ANY` `SQL` `TRANSLATION` `PROFILE` |  Alter the translator, custom SQL statement translations, or custom error translations of a SQL translation profile in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`USE` `ANY` `SQL` `TRANSLATION` `PROFILE` |  Use SQL translation profiles in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP` `ANY` `SQL` `TRANSLATION` `PROFILE` |  Drop SQL translation profiles in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`TRANSLATE` `ANY` `SQL` |  Translate SQL through the grantee's SQL translation profile for any user.  
SYNONYMS: |  Caution: `CREATE` `PUBLIC` `SYNONYM` and `DROP` `PUBLIC` `SYNONYM` are extremely powerful privileges that should be granted only to trusted users. Refer to [Oracle Database Security Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG499) before granting these privileges.   
`CREATE SYNONYM` |  Create synonyms in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY SYNONYM` |  Create private synonyms in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`CREATE PUBLIC SYNONYM` |  Create public synonyms.  
`DROP ANY SYNONYM` |  Drop private synonyms in any schema except `SYS`,`AUDSYS`.   
`DROP PUBLIC SYNONYM` |  Drop public synonyms.  
TABLES: |  Note: For external tables, the only valid privileges are `CREATE` `ANY` `TABLE`, `ALTER` `ANY` `TABLE`, `DROP` `ANY` `TABLE`, `READ` `ANY` `TABLE`, and `SELECT` `ANY` `TABLE`.   
`CREATE TABLE` |  Create tables in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY TABLE` |  Create a table in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``. The owner of the schema containing the table must have space quota on the tablespace to contain the table.   
`ALTER ANY TABLE` |  Alter a table or view in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`.   
`BACKUP ANY TABLE` |  Use the Export utility to incrementally export objects from the schema of other users except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DELETE ANY TABLE` |  Delete rows from tables, table partitions, or views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY TABLE` |  Drop or truncate tables or table partitions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`INSERT ANY TABLE` |  Insert rows into tables and views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`LOCK ANY TABLE` |  Lock tables and views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`READ` `ANY` `TABLE` |  Query tables, views, or materialized views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`SELECT ANY TABLE` |  Query tables, views, or materialized views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``. Obtain row locks using a `SELECT` ... `FOR` `UPDATE`.   
`FLASHBACK ANY TABLE` |  Issue a SQL Flashback Query on any table, view, or materialized view in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``. This privilege is not needed to execute the `DBMS_FLASHBACK` procedures.   
`UPDATE ANY TABLE` |  Update rows in tables and views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`REDEFINE ANY TABLE` |  Perform online redefinition without granting any of the privileges in `USER` or `FULL` mode.   
`TABLE RETENTION` |  Create a blockchain table or an immutable table whose table retention exceeds the threshold specified by the parameter `BLOCKCHAIN_TABLE_RETENTION_THRESHOLD`. Increase the table retention for an existing blockchain table or immutable table to a value above the threshold specified by the parameter `BLOCKCHAIN_TABLE_RETENTION_THRESHOLD`.   
TABLESPACES: |  â  
`CREATE TABLESPACE` |  Create tablespaces.  
`ALTER TABLESPACE` |  Alter tablespaces.  
`DROP TABLESPACE` |  Drop tablespaces.  
`MANAGE TABLESPACE` |  Take tablespaces offline and online and begin and end tablespace backups.  
`UNLIMITED TABLESPACE` |  Use an unlimited amount of any tablespace. This privilege overrides any specific quotas assigned. If you revoke this privilege from a user, then the user's schema objects remain but further tablespace allocation is denied unless authorized by specific tablespace quotas. You cannot grant this system privilege to roles.  
TRIGGERS: |  â  
`CREATE TRIGGER` |  Create database triggers in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY TRIGGER` |  Create database triggers in any schema except `SYS, `AUDSYS``.   
`ALTER ANY TRIGGER` |  Enable, disable, or compile database triggers in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY TRIGGER` |  Drop database triggers in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`ADMINISTER DATABASE TRIGGER` |  Create a trigger on `DATABASE`. You must also have the `CREATE` `TRIGGER` or `CREATE` `ANY` `TRIGGER` system privilege.   
TYPES: |  â  
`CREATE TYPE` |  Create object types and object type bodies in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY TYPE` |  Create object types and object type bodies in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`ALTER ANY TYPE` |  Alter object types in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY TYPE` |  Drop object types and object type bodies in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`EXECUTE ANY TYPE` |  Use and reference object types and collection types in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``, and invoke methods of an object type in any schema, except `SYS,`AUDSYS``, if you make the grant to a specific user. If you grant `EXECUTE` `ANY` `TYPE` to a role, then users holding the enabled role will not be able to invoke methods of an object type in any schema.   
`UNDER ANY TYPE` |  Create subtypes under any nonfinal object types.   
USERS: |  â  
`CREATE USER` |  Create users. This privilege also allows the creator to:

  * Assign quotas on any tablespace.
  * Set default and temporary tablespaces.
  * Assign a profile as part of a `CREATE` `USER` statement. 

  
`ALTER USER` |  Alter any user except `SYS`. This privilege authorizes the grantee to: 

  * Change another user's password or authentication method.
  * Assign quotas on any tablespace.
  * Set default and temporary tablespaces.
  * Assign a profile and default roles.

  
`DROP USER` |  Drop users  
VIEWS: |  â  
`CREATE VIEW` |  Create views in the grantee's schema.  
`CREATE ANY VIEW` |  Create views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY VIEW` |  Drop views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`UNDER ANY VIEW` |  Create subviews under any object views.  
`FLASHBACK ANY TABLE` |  Issue a SQL Flashback Query on any table, view, or materialized view in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``. This privilege is not needed to execute the `DBMS_FLASHBACK` procedures.   
`MERGE ANY VIEW` |  If a user has been granted the `MERGE` `ANY` `VIEW` privilege, then for any query issued by that user, the optimizer can use view merging to improve query performance without performing the checks that would otherwise be performed to ensure that view merging does not violate any security intentions of the view creator. See [Oracle Database SQL Tuning Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=TGSQL209) for information on view merging.   
VIRTUAL PRIVATE DATABASE |   
`EXEMPT ACCESS POLICY` |  Bypass fine-grained access control. Caution: This is a very powerful system privilege, as it lets the grantee bypass application-driven security policies. Database administrators should use caution when granting this privilege.   
`ADMINISTER ROW LEVEL SECURITY POLICY` |  Allow management of Virtual Private Database (VPD) policies (fine-grained access control, row-level security)   
MISCELLANEOUS: |  â  
`ANALYZE ANY` |  Analyze a table, cluster, or index in any schema except `SYS`.   
`BECOME` `USER` |  Allow users of the Data Pump Import utility (impdp) and the original Import utility (imp) to assume the identity of another user in order to perform operations that cannot be directly performed by a third party (for example, loading objects such as object privilege grants). Allow Streams administrators to create or alter capture users and apply users in a Streams environment. By default this privilege is part of the DBA role. Database Vault removes this privileges from the DBA role. Therefore, this privilege is needed by Streams only in an environment where Database Vault is installed.  
`CHANGE` `NOTIFICATION` |  Create a registration on queries and receive database change notifications in response to DML or DDL changes to the objects associated with the registered queries. Refer to [Oracle Database Development Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADFNS018) for more information on database change notification.   
`COMMENT ANY TABLE` |  Comment on a table, view, or column in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`ENABLE DIAGNOSTICS` | 

  * Set debug-events via `ALTER SESSION` or `ALTER SYSTEM`
  * Set debug-actions to execute during an event via `ALTER SESSION` or `ALTER SYSTEM`
  * Execute debug-actions immediately via `ALTER SESSION` or `ALTER SYSTEM` by specifying the `IMMEDIATE` keyword instead of an event name 
  * Set the event parameter in the spfile via `ALTER SYSTEM`

  
|  
`FORCE ANY TRANSACTION` |  Force the commit or rollback of any in-doubt distributed transaction in the local database. Induce the failure of a distributed transaction.  
`FORCE TRANSACTION` |  Force the commit or rollback of the grantee's in-doubt distributed transactions in the local database.  
`GRANT` `ANY` `OBJECT` `PRIVILEGE` |  Grant any object privilege that the object owner is permitted to grant.  Revoke any object privilege that was granted by the object owner or by some other user with the `GRANT` `ANY` `OBJECT` `PRIVILEGE` privilege.   
`GRANT ANY PRIVILEGE` |  Grant any system privilege.  
`INHERIT` `ANY` `PRIVILEGES` |  Execute invoker's rights procedures owned by the grantee with the privileges of the invoker.  
`KEEP` `DATE` `TIME` |  The `SYSDATE` and `SYSTIMESTAMP` functions return their original values during replay for Application Continuity when the grantee is running the application. This privilege is useful for providing bind variable consistency after recoverable errors.  Note: If this privilege is granted or revoked between runtime and failover of a request, then the original values are not returned during replay for Application Continuity for that request.   
`KEEP` `SYSGUID` |  The `SYS_GUID` function returns its original value during replay for Application Continuity when the grantee is running the application. This privilege is useful for providing bind variable consistency after recoverable errors.  Note: If this privilege is granted or revoked between runtime and failover of a request, then the original value is not returned during replay for Application Continuity for that request.   
`PURGE` `DBA_RECYCLEBIN` |  Remove all objects from the system-wide recycle bin.  
`RESUMABLE` |  Enable resumable space allocation.  
`SELECT ANY DICTIONARY` |  Query any data dictionary object in the dictioanry protected schema, with the exception of the following objects: `SYS.DEFAULT_PWD$`, `SYS.ENC$`, `SYS.LINK$`,` SYS.USER$`, `SYS.USER_HISTORY$`, and `SYS.XS$VERIFIERS`.  Note: The privilege will NOT allow the grantee to execute `SELECT .. FOR UPDATE` on a dictionary table. It will allow âREADâ on dictionary objects   
`SELECT ANY TRANSACTION` |  Query the contents of the `FLASHBACK_TRANSACTION_QUERY` view.  Caution: This is a very powerful system privilege, as it lets the grantee view all data in the database, including past data. This privilege should be granted only to users who need to use the Oracle Flashback Transaction Query feature.   
  
Table 18-3 Schema Privileges (Organized by the Operations Authorized)

Schema Privilege Name | Operations Authorized  
---|---  
ANALYTIC VIEWS |  â  
`CREATE ANY ANALYTIC VIEW` |  Create analytic views in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS.` If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE ANALYTIC VIEW` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY ANALYTIC VIEW` |  Rename analytic views in any schema except `SYS, AUDSYS`.   
`DROP ANY ANALYTIC VIEW` |  Drop analytic views in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS` .   
ATTRIBUTE DIMENSIONS |  â  
`CREATE ANY ATTRIBUTE DIMENSION` |  Create attribute dimensions in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE ATTRIBUTE DIMENSION` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY ATTRIBUTE DIMENSION` |  Rename attribute dimensions in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
`DROP ANY ATTRIBUTE DIMENSION` |  Drop attribute dimensions in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
AUDIT GROUP: |  â  
`AUDIT ANY` |  Audit an object in any schema, except `SYS,`AUDSYS``, using `AUDIT` `schema_objects` statements.   
`ADMINISTER FINE GRAINED AUDIT POLICY` |  Allow management of fine-grained audit policies in a schema.  
CLUSTERS: |  â  
`CREATE ANY CLUSTER` |  Create clusters in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`. Behaves similarly to `CREATE` `ANY` `TABLE`.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE CLUSTER` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY CLUSTER` |  Alter clusters in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`.   
`DROP ANY CLUSTER` |  Drop clusters in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
DATA REDACTION: |  â  
`EXEMPT` `REDACTION` `POLICY` |  Bypass any existing Oracle Data Redaction policies and view actual data from tables or views on which Data Redaction policies are defined in the schema.  
`ADMINISTER REDACTION POLICY` |  Allow management of redaction policies in a schema.  
DIMENSIONS: |  â  
`CREATE ANY DIMENSION` |  Create dimensions in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE DIMENSION` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY DIMENSION` |  Alter dimensions in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
`DROP ANY DIMENSION` |  Drop dimensions in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
DOMAINS: |  â  
`CREATE ANY DOMAIN` |  Create a `DOMAIN` in any non-dictionary protected schema.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE DOMAIN` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY DOMAIN` |  Rename a domain in any non-dictionary protected schema.  
`DROP ANY DOMAIN` |  Drop a domain in any non-dictionary protected schema.   
`EXECUTE ANY DOMAIN` |  Execute a domain in a designated non-dictionary protected schema.  
HIERARCHIES |  â  
`CREATE ANY HIERARCHY` |  Create hierarchies in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE HIERARCHY` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY HIERARCHY` |  Rename hierarchies in any schema except `SYS,AUDSYS`.   
`DROP ANY HIERARCHY` |  Drop hierarchies in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`.   
INDEXES: |  â  
`CREATE ANY INDEX` |  Create in any schema, except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`, a domain index or an index on any table in any schema except `SYS`,`AUDSYS`.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE INDEX` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY INDEX` |  Alter indexes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY INDEX` |  Drop indexes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
INDEXTYPES: |  â  
`CREATE ANY INDEXTYPE` |  Create indextypes in any schema except `SYS` and create comments on indextypes in any schema except `SYS`.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE INDEXTYPE` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY INDEXTYPE` |  Modify indextypes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY INDEXTYPE` |  Drop indextypes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`EXECUTE ANY INDEXTYPE` |  Reference indextypes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
JOB SCHEDULER OBJECTS:  |  The following privileges are needed to execute procedures in the `DBMS_SCHEDULER` package. This privileges do not apply to lightweight jobs, which are not database objects. Refer to [Oracle Database Administrator's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN035) for more information about lightweight jobs.   
`CREATE ANY JOB` |  Create, alter, or drop jobs, chains, schedules, programs, credentials, resource objects, or incompatibility resource objects in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE JOB` privilege.  Note: This extremely powerful privilege allows the grantee to execute code as any other user. It should be granted with caution.   
LIBRARIES: |  Caution: `CREATE` `LIBARARY`, `CREATE` `ANY` `LIBRARY`, `ALTER` `ANY` `LIBRARY`, and `EXECUTE` `ANY` `LIBRARY` are extremely powerful privileges that should be granted only to trusted users. Refer to [Oracle Database Security Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG499) before granting these privileges.   
`CREATE ANY LIBRARY` |  Create external procedure or function libraries in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE LIBRARY` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY LIBRARY` |  Alter external procedure or function libraries in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY LIBRARY` |  Drop external procedure or function libraries in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`EXECUTE ANY LIBRARY` |  Use external procedure or function libraries in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
MATERIALIZED VIEWS:  |  â  
`CREATE ANY MATERIALIZED VIEW` |  Create materialized views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY MATERIALIZED VIEW` |  Alter materialized views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY MATERIALIZED VIEW` |  Drop materialized views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`GLOBAL QUERY REWRITE` |  Enable rewrite using a materialized view when that materialized view references tables or views in any schema except `SYS`.   
`FLASHBACK ANY TABLE` |  Issue a SQL Flashback Query on any table, view, or materialized view in any schema except `SYS`. This privilege is not needed to execute the `DBMS_FLASHBACK` procedures.   
MINING MODELS: |  â  
`CREATE ANY MINING MODEL` |  Create mining models in any schema, except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`, using the `DBMS_DATA_MINING.CREATE_MODEL` procedure.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE MINING MODEL` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY MINING MODEL` |  Change the mining model name or the associated cost matrix of a model in any schema, except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`, using the applicable `DBMS_DATA_MINING` procedures.   
`DROP ANY MINING MODEL` |  Drop mining models in any schema, except `SYS,`AUDSYS``, using the `DBMS_DATA_MINING.DROP_MODEL` procedure.   
`SELECT ANY MINING MODEL` |  Score or view mining models in any schema except `SYS, `AUDSYS``. Scoring is done either with the `PREDICTION` family of SQL functions or with the `DBMS_DATA_MINING.APPLY` procedure. Viewing the model is done with the `DBMS_DATA_MINING.GET_MODEL_DETAILS_*` procedures.   
`COMMENT ANY MINING MODEL` |  Create comments on mining models in any schema, except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`, using the SQL `COMMENT` statement.   
OLAP CUBES: |  The following privileges are valid when you are using Oracle Database with the OLAP option.  
`CREATE ANY CUBE` |  Create OLAP cubes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE CUBE` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY CUBE` |  Alter OLAP cubes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY CUBE` |  Drop OLAP cubes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`SELECT ANY CUBE` |  Query or view OLAP cubes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`UPDATE ANY CUBE` |  Update OLAP cubes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
OLAP CUBE MEASURE FOLDERS: |  The following privileges are valid when you are using Oracle Database with the OLAP option.  
`CREATE ANY MEASURE FOLDER` |  Create OLAP measure folders in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE MEASURE FOLDER` privilege.   
`DELETE ANY MEASURE FOLDER` |  Delete a measure from an OLAP measure folder in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY MEASURE FOLDER` |  Drop OLAP measure folders in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`INSERT ANY MEASURE FOLDER` |  Insert a measure into an OLAP measure folder in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
OLAP CUBE DIMENSIONS: |  The following privileges are valid when you are using Oracle Database with the OLAP option.  
`CREATE ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  Create OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE CUBE DIMENSION` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  Alter OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DELETE ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  Delete from OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS`,` AUDSYS`.   
`DROP ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  Drop OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`INSERT ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  Insert into OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`SELECT ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  View or query OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`UPDATE ANY CUBE DIMENSION` |  Update OLAP cube dimensions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
OLAP CUBE BUILD PROCESSES: |  â  
`CREATE ANY CUBE BUILD PROCESS` |  Create OLAP cube build processes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE CUBE BUILD PROCESS` privilege.   
`DROP ANY CUBE BUILD PROCESS` |  Drop OLAP cube build processes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`UPDATE ANY CUBE BUILD PROCESS` |  Update OLAP cube build processes in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
OPERATORS: |  â  
`CREATE ANY OPERATOR` |  Create an operator and its bindings in any schema and create a comment on an operator in any schema. If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE OPERATOR` privilege.   
```ALTER ANY OPERATOR` |  Modify operators in any schema.  
`DROP ANY OPERATOR` |  Drop operators in any schema.  
`EXECUTE ANY OPERATOR` |  Reference operators in any schema.  
PROCEDURES: |  â  
`CREATE ANY PROCEDURE` |  Create stored procedures, functions, or packages in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE PROCEDURE` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY PROCEDURE` |  Alter stored procedures, functions, or packages in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY PROCEDURE` |  Drop stored procedures, functions, or packages in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`EXECUTE ANY PROCEDURE` |  Execute procedures or functions, either standalone or packaged. Reference public package variables in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
SEQUENCES: |  â  
`CREATE ANY SEQUENCE` |  Create sequences in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE SEQUENCE` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY SEQUENCE` |  Alter sequences in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY SEQUENCE` |  Drop sequences in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`SELECT ANY SEQUENCE` |  Reference sequences in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
SQL TRANSLATION PROFILES: |  â  
`CREATE` `ANY` `SQL` `TRANSLATION` `PROFILE` |  Create SQL translation profiles in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE SQL TRANSLATION PROFILE` privilege.   
`ALTER` `ANY` `SQL` `TRANSLATION` `PROFILE` |  Alter the translator, custom SQL statement translations, or custom error translations of a SQL translation profile in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`USE` `ANY` `SQL` `TRANSLATION` `PROFILE` |  Use SQL translation profiles in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP` `ANY` `SQL` `TRANSLATION` `PROFILE` |  Drop SQL translation profiles in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`TRANSLATE` `ANY` `SQL` |  Translate SQL through the grantee's SQL translation profile for any user.  
SYNONYMS: |  -  
`CREATE ANY SYNONYM` |  Create private synonyms in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE SYNONYM` privilege.   
`DROP ANY SYNONYM` |  Drop private synonyms in any schema except `SYS`,`AUDSYS`.   
TABLES: |  -  
`CREATE ANY TABLE` |  Create a table in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``. The owner of the schema containing the table must have space quota on the tablespace to contain the table.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE TABLE` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY TABLE` |  Alter a table or view in any schema except `SYS`, `AUDSYS`.   
`BACKUP ANY TABLE` |  Use the Export utility to incrementally export objects from the schema of other users except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DELETE ANY TABLE` |  Delete rows from tables, table partitions, or views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY TABLE` |  Drop or truncate tables or table partitions in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`INSERT ANY TABLE` |  Insert rows into tables and views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`LOCK ANY TABLE` |  Lock tables and views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`READ` `ANY` `TABLE` |  Query tables, views, or materialized views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`SELECT ANY TABLE` |  Query tables, views, or materialized views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``. Obtain row locks using a `SELECT` ... `FOR` `UPDATE`.   
`FLASHBACK ANY TABLE` |  Issue a SQL Flashback Query on any table, view, or materialized view in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``. This privilege is not needed to execute the `DBMS_FLASHBACK` procedures.   
`UPDATE ANY TABLE` |  Update rows in tables and views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
TRIGGERS: |  â  
`CREATE ANY TRIGGER` |  Create database triggers in any schema except `SYS, `AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE TRIGGER` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY TRIGGER` |  Enable, disable, or compile database triggers in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY TRIGGER` |  Drop database triggers in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
TYPES: |  â  
`CREATE ANY TYPE` |  Create object types and object type bodies in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE TYPE` privilege.   
`ALTER ANY TYPE` |  Alter object types in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`DROP ANY TYPE` |  Drop object types and object type bodies in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`EXECUTE ANY TYPE` |  Use and reference object types and collection types in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``, and invoke methods of an object type in any schema, except `SYS,`AUDSYS``, if you make the grant to a specific user. If you grant `EXECUTE` `ANY` `TYPE` to a role, then users holding the enabled role will not be able to invoke methods of an object type in any schema.   
`UNDER ANY TYPE` |  Create subtypes under any nonfinal object types.   
VIEWS: |  â  
`CREATE ANY VIEW` |  Create views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.  If the grantee is the schema owner, then grantee should have been granted `CREATE VIEW` privilege.   
`DROP ANY VIEW` |  Drop views in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
`UNDER ANY VIEW` |  Create subviews under any object views.  
`FLASHBACK ANY TABLE` |  Issue a SQL Flashback Query on any table, view, or materialized view in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``. This privilege is not needed to execute the `DBMS_FLASHBACK` procedures.   
VIRTUAL PRIVATE DATABASE: |  â  
`EXEMPT ACCESS POLICY` |  Bypass fine-grained access control. Caution: This is a very powerful system privilege, as it lets the grantee bypass application-driven security policies. Database administrators should use caution when granting this privilege.   
`ADMINISTER ROW LEVEL SECURITY POLICY ` |  Allow management of Virtual Private Database (VPD) policies in a schema (fine-grained access control, row-level security).  
MISCELLANEOUS: |  â  
`ANALYZE ANY` |  Analyze a table, cluster, or index in any schema except `SYS`.   
`COMMENT ANY TABLE` |  Comment on a table, view, or column in any schema except `SYS,`AUDSYS``.   
  
Table 18-4 Object Privileges (Organized by the Database Object Operated Upon)

Object Privilege Name | Operations Authorized  
---|---  
ANALYTIC VIEW PRIVILEGES |  The following analytic view privileges authorize operations on analytic views.   
`ALTER` |  Rename the analytic view.  
`READ` |  Query the object with the `SELECT` statement.   
`SELECT` | Query the object with the `SELECT` statement.   
ATTRIBUTE DIMENSION PRIVILEGES |  The following attribute dimension privileges authorize operations on attribute dimensions..   
`ALTER` |  Rename the attribute dimension.  
DIRECTORY PRIVILEGES |  The following directory privileges provide secured access to the files stored in the operating system directory to which the directory object serves as a pointer. The directory object contains the full path name of the operating system directory where the files reside. Because the files are actually stored outside the database, Oracle Database server processes also need to have appropriate file permissions on the file system server. Granting object privileges on the directory database object to individual database users, rather than on the operating system, allows the database to enforce security during file operations.   
`READ ` |  Read files in the directory.  
`WRITE` |  Write files in the directory. This privilege is useful only in connection with external tables. It allows the grantee to determine whether the external table agent can write a log file or a bad file to the directory. Restriction: This privilege does not allow the grantee to write to a `BFILE`.   
`EXECUTE` |  Execute a preprocessor program that resides in the directory. A preprocessor program converts data to a supported format when loading data records from an external table with the `ORACLE_LOADER` access driver. Refer to [Oracle Database Utilities](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=SUTIL1385) for more information. This privilege does not implicitly allow READ access on the external table data.   
EDITION PRIVILEGE |  The following edition privilege authorizes the use of an edition.   
`USE` |  Use an edition.  
FLASHBACK DATA ARCHIVE PRIVILEGE |  The following flashback data archive privilege authorizes operations on flashback data archives.   
`FLASHBACK ARCHIVE` |  Enable or disable historical tracking for a table.  
HIERARCHY PRIVILEGES |  The following hierarchy privileges authorize operations on hierarchies.   
`ALTER` |  Rename the hierarchy.  
`READ` |  Query the object with the `SELECT` statement.   
`SELECT` |  Query the object with the `SELECT` statement.   
INDEXTYPE PRIVILEGE |  The following indextype privilege authorizes operations on indextypes.   
`EXECUTE` |  Reference an indextype.  
LIBRARY PRIVILEGE |  The following library privilege authorizes operations on a library.   
`EXECUTE` |  Use and reference the specified object and invoke its methods. Caution: This extremely powerful privilege should be granted only to trusted users. Refer to [Oracle Database Security Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG499) before granting this privilege.   
MATERIALIZED VIEW PRIVILEGES |  The following materialized view privileges authorize operations on a materialized view. The `DELETE`, `INSERT`, and `UPDATE` privileges can be granted only to updatable materialized views.   
`ON COMMIT REFRESH` `` |  Create a refresh-on-commit materialized view on the specified table.  
`QUERY REWRITE` `` |  Create a materialized view for query rewrite using the specified table.  
`READ` |  Query the materialized view.  
`SELECT ` |  Query the materialized view. Obtain row locks with the `SELECT` ... `FOR` `UPDATE` or `LOCK` `TABLE` statement.   
MINING MODEL PRIVILEGES |  The following mining model privileges authorize operations on a mining model. These privileges are not required for models within the users own schema.  
`ALTER ` |  Change the mining model name or the associated cost matrix using the applicable `DBMS_DATA_MINING` procedures.   
`SELECT ` |  Score or view the mining model. Scoring is done with the `PREDICTION` family of SQL functions or with the `DBMS_DATA_MINING.APPLY` procedure. Viewing the model is done with the `DBMS_DATA_MINING.GET_MODEL_DETAILS_*` procedures.   
OBJECT TYPE PRIVILEGES |  The following object type privileges authorize operations on a database object type.   
`DEBUG ` |  Access, through a debugger, all public and nonpublic variables, methods, and types defined on the object type. Place a breakpoint or stop at a line or instruction boundary within the type body.  
`EXECUTE` |  Use and reference the specified object and invoke its methods. Access, through a debugger, public variables, types, and methods defined on the object type.  
`UNDER` |  Create a subtype under this type. You can grant this object privilege only if you have the `UNDER` `ANY` `TYPE` privilege `WITH` `GRANT` `OPTION` on the immediate supertype of this type.   
OLAP PRIVILEGES |  The following object privileges are valid if you are using Oracle Database with the OLAP option.  
`INSERT` |  Insert members into the OLAP cube dimension or measures into the measures folder.  
`ALTER` |  Change the definition of the OLAP cube dimension or cube.  
`DELETE` |  Delete members from the OLAP cube dimension or measures from the measures folder.  
`SELECT` |  View or query the OLAP cube or cube dimension.  
`UPDATE` |  Update measure values of the OLAP cube or attribute values of the cube dimension.  
OPERATOR PRIVILEGE |  The following operator privilege authorizes operations on user-defined operators.   
`EXECUTE` |  Reference an operator.  
PROCEDURE, FUNCTION, PACKAGE PRIVILEGES |  The following procedure, function, and package privileges authorize operations on procedures, functions, and packages. These privileges also apply to Java sources, classes, and resources, which Oracle Database treats as though they were procedures for purposes of granting object privileges.   
`DEBUG ` |  Access, through a debugger, all public and nonpublic variables, methods, and types defined on the object. Place a breakpoint or stop at a line or instruction boundary within the procedure, function, or package. This privilege grants access to the declarations in the method or package specification and body.  
`EXECUTE` |  Execute the procedure or function directly, or access any program object declared in the specification of a package, or compile the object implicitly during a call to a currently invalid or uncompiled function or procedure. This privilege does not allow the grantee to explicitly compile using `ALTER PROCEDURE` or `ALTER FUNCTION`. For explicit compilation you need the appropriate `ALTER` system privilege.  Access, through a debugger, public variables, types, and methods defined on the procedure, function, or package. This privilege grants access to the declarations in the method or package specification only. Job scheduler objects are created using the `DBMS_SCHEDULER` package. After these objects are created, you can grant the `EXECUTE` object privilege on job scheduler classes and programs. You can also grant `ALTER` privilege on job scheduler jobs, programs, and schedules.  Note: Users do not need this privilege to execute a procedure, function, or package indirectly.   
PROPERTY GRAPH PRIVILEGES |  The following object privileges authorize operations on property graphs.  
`ALTER` |  Change the graph definition using `ALTER PROPERTY GRAPH` statement.   
`READ` |  Query the `PROPERTY GRAPH` with the `SELECT` statement.  Does not allow `SELECT â¦ FOR UPDATE`.   
`SELECT` |  Query the `PROPERTY GRAPH` with the `SELECT` statement.   
SCHEDULER PRIVILEGES |  Job scheduler objects are created using the `DBMS_SCHEDULER` package. After these objects are created, you can grant the following privileges.   
`EXECUTE` |  Operations on job classes, programs, chains, and credentials.  
`ALTER` |  Modifications to jobs, programs, chains, credentials, and schedules.  
`USE` |  Associate the specified scheduler resource object with programs and jobs.  
SEQUENCE PRIVILEGES |  The following sequence privileges authorize operations on a sequence.   
`ALTER ` |  Change the sequence definition with the `ALTER` `SEQUENCE` statement.   
`KEEP` `SEQUENCE` |  The sequence pseudocolumn `NEXTVAL` retains its original value during replay for Application Continuity when the grantee is running the application. This privilege is useful for providing bind variable consistency when replaying after recoverable errors.  If this privilege is granted or revoked between runtime and failover of a request, then the original value of `NEXTVAL` is not retained during replay for Application Continuity for that request.  Note: This privilege is not granted by the `GRANT` `ALL` `PRIVILEGES` `ON` `sequence` statement. You must explicitly grant this privilege.  Note: This privilege is part of the DBA role.   
`SELECT ` |  Examine and increment values of the sequence with the `CURRVAL` and `NEXTVAL` pseudocolumns.   
SQL TRANSLATION PROFILE PRIVILEGES |  The following SQL translation profile privileges authorize operations on a SQL translation profile.   
`ALTER` |  Alter the translator, custom SQL statement translations, or custom error translations of a SQL translation profile.  
`USE` |  Use a SQL translation profile.  
SYNONYM PRIVILEGES |  Synonym privileges are the same as the privileges for the target object. Granting a privilege on a synonym is equivalent to granting the privilege on the base object. Similarly, granting a privilege on a base object is equivalent to granting the privilege on all synonyms for the object. If you grant to a user a privilege on a synonym, then the user can use either the synonym name or the base object name in the SQL statement that exercises the privilege.   
TABLE PRIVILEGES |  The following table privileges authorize operations on a table. Any one of following object privileges, except the `READ` privilege, allows the grantee to lock the table in any lock mode with the `LOCK` `TABLE` statement.  Note: For external tables, the only valid object privileges are `ALTER`, `READ`, and `SELECT`.   
`ALTER ` |  Change the table definition with the `ALTER` `TABLE` statement.   
`DEBUG` |  Access, through a debugger:

  * PL/SQL code in the body of any triggers defined on the table
  * Information on SQL statements that reference the table directly

  
`DELETE ` |  Remove rows from the table with the `DELETE` statement.  Note: You must grant the `SELECT` privilege on the table along with the `DELETE` privilege if the table is on a remote database.   
`INDEX ` |  Create an index on the table with the `CREATE` `INDEX` statement.   
`INSERT ` |  Add new rows to the table with the `INSERT` statement.  Note: You must grant the `SELECT` privilege on the table along with the `INSERT` privilege if the table is on a remote database.   
`READ` |  Query the table with the `SELECT` statement. Does not allow `SELECT` ... `FOR` `UPDATE`.   
`REFERENCES ` |  Create a constraint that refers to the table. You cannot grant this privilege to a role.   
`SELECT ` |  To allow access to specific tables during queries, grant the `SELECT` privilege on the table.  Query the table with the `SELECT` statement, including `SELECT` ... `FOR` `UPDATE`.   
`UPDATE ` |  Change data in the table with the `UPDATE` statement.  Note: You must grant the `SELECT` privilege on the table along with the `UPDATE` privilege if the table is on a remote database.   
`FLASHBACK ` |  To allow access to a specific table during queries, grant the `FLASHBACK` privilege on the table.  Issue a SQL Flashback Query on the table.   
`SIGN ` |  A user `SCOTT` with the `SIGN` privilege on a blockchain table can sign a row in the blockchain table as a delegate if the following condtions are met:  The row does not already have a delegate signature The row does not contain a non-NULL delegate user ID that is different than the ID of user `SCOTT`.   
USER PRIVILEGES |  The following privileges authorize operations on a user.  
`INHERIT` `PRIVILEGES` |  Execute invoker's rights procedures or functions owned by the grantee with the privileges of the invoker when the invoker is the user on whom this privilege is granted.  
`INHERIT REMOTE PRIVILEGES` |  Allow the user on whom this privilege is granted to execute definer's rights procedures or functions that contain current user database links and are owned by the grantee.  
`TRANSLATE` `SQL` |  Translate SQL through the grantee's SQL translation profile for the user on whom this privilege is granted.  
VIEW PRIVILEGES |  The following view privileges authorize operations on a view. Any one of the following object privileges, except the `READ` privilege, allows the grantee to lock the view in any lock mode with the `LOCK` `TABLE` statement.  To grant a privilege on a view, you must have that privilege with the `GRANT` `OPTION` on all of the base tables of the view.   
`DEBUG` |  Access, through a debugger:

  * PL/SQL code in the body of any triggers defined on the view
  * Information on SQL statements that reference the view directly

  
`DELETE ` |  Remove rows from the view with the `DELETE` statement.   
`INSERT ` |  Add new rows to the view with the `INSERT` statement.   
`MERGE` `VIEW` |  This object privilege has the same behavior as the system privilege [MERGE ANY VIEW](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BGBHCCFH), except that the privilege is limited to the views specified in the `ON` clause. For any query issued by the grantee on the specified views, the optimizer can use view merging to improve query performance without performing the checks that would otherwise be performed to ensure that view merging does not violate any security intentions of the view creator.   
`READ` |  Query the view with the `SELECT` statement. Does not allow `SELECT` ... `FOR` `UPDATE`.   
`REFERENCES` |  Define foreign key constraints on the view.  
`SELECT ` |  Query the view with the `SELECT` statement, including `SELECT` ... `FOR` `UPDATE`.  See Also:â[object_privilege](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BABGJCJA) for additional information on granting this object privilege on a view   
`UNDER` |  Create a subview under this view. You can grant this object privilege only if you have the `UNDER` `ANY` `VIEW` privilege `WITH` `GRANT` `OPTION` on the immediate superview of this view.   
`UPDATE ` |  Change data in the view with the `UPDATE` statement.   
`FLASHBACK ` |  To allow access to a specific view during queries, grant the FLASHBACK privilege on the view. Issue a SQL Flashback Query on the view.   
  
Examples

Granting a System Privilege to a User: Example

To grant the `CREATE` `SESSION` system privilege to the sample user `hr`,
allowing `hr` to log on to Oracle Database, issue the following statement:

    
    
    GRANT CREATE SESSION 
       TO hr;

Assigning User Passwords When Granting a System Privilege: Example

Assume that user `hr` exists and user `newuser` does not exist. The following
statement resets the user `hr` password to `password1`, creates user `newuser`
with `password2`, and grants both users the `CREATE` `SESSION` system
privilege:

    
    
    GRANT CREATE SESSION
      TO hr, newuser IDENTIFIED BY password1, password2;

Granting System Privileges to a Role: Example

The following statement grants appropriate system privileges to a data
warehouse manager role, which was created in the "[Creating a Role:
Example](CREATE-
ROLE.md#GUID-B2252DC5-5AE7-49B7-9048-98062993E450__I2082342)":

    
    
    GRANT
         CREATE ANY MATERIALIZED VIEW
       , ALTER ANY MATERIALIZED VIEW
       , DROP ANY MATERIALIZED VIEW
       , QUERY REWRITE
       , GLOBAL QUERY REWRITE
       TO dw_manager
       WITH ADMIN OPTION;
    

The `dw_manager` privilege domain now contains the system privileges related
to materialized views.

Granting a Role with the ADMIN OPTION: Example

To grant the `dw_manager` role with the `ADMIN` `OPTION` to the sample user
`sh`, issue the following statement:

    
    
    GRANT dw_manager 
       TO sh 
       WITH ADMIN OPTION; 
    

User `sh` can now perform the following operations with the `dw_manager` role:

  * Enable the role and exercise any privileges in the privilege domain of the role, including the `CREATE` `MATERIALIZED` `VIEW` system privilege 

  * Grant and revoke the role to and from other users 

  * Drop the role 

  * Grant and revoke the `dw_manager` role to and from program units in the `sh` schema 

Granting a Role with the DELEGATE OPTION: Example

To grant the `dw_manager` role with the `DELEGATE` `OPTION` to the sample user
`sh`, issue the following statement:

    
    
    GRANT dw_manager 
       TO sh 
       WITH DELEGATE OPTION; 
    

User `sh` can now grant and revoke the `dw_manager` role to and from program
units in the `sh` schema.

Granting Object Privileges to a Role: Example

The following example grants the `SELECT` object privileges to a data
warehouse user role, which was created in the "[Creating a Role:
Example](CREATE-
ROLE.md#GUID-B2252DC5-5AE7-49B7-9048-98062993E450__I2082342)":

    
    
    GRANT SELECT ON sh.sales TO warehouse_user;

Granting a Role to a Role: Example

The following statement grants the `warehouse_user` role to the `dw_manager`
role. Both roles were created in the "[Creating a Role: Example](CREATE-
ROLE.md#GUID-B2252DC5-5AE7-49B7-9048-98062993E450__I2082342)":

    
    
    GRANT warehouse_user TO dw_manager; 
    

The `dw_manager` role now contains all of the privileges in the domain of the
`warehouse_user` role.

Granting an Object Privilege on a User: Example

To grant the `INHERIT` `PRIVILEGES` object privilege on user `sh` to user
`hr`, issue the following statement:

    
    
    GRANT INHERIT PRIVILEGES ON USER sh TO hr;

Granting an Object Privilege on a Directory: Example

To grant `READ` on directory `bfile_dir` to user `hr`, with the `GRANT`
`OPTION`, issue the following statement:

    
    
    GRANT READ ON DIRECTORY bfile_dir TO hr
       WITH GRANT OPTION;

Granting Object Privileges on a Table to a User: Example

To grant all privileges on the table `oe.bonuses`, which was created in
"[Merging into a Table:
Example](MERGE.md#GUID-5692CCB7-24D9-4C0E-81A7-A22436DC968F__I2091840)", to
the user `hr` with the `GRANT` `OPTION`, issue the following statement:

    
    
    GRANT ALL ON bonuses TO hr 
       WITH GRANT OPTION; 
    

The user `hr` can subsequently perform the following operations:

  * Exercise any privilege on the `bonuses` table 

  * Grant any privilege on the `bonuses` table to another user or role 

Granting Object Privileges on a View: Example

To grant `SELECT` and `UPDATE` privileges on the view `emp_view`, which was
created in "[Creating a View: Example](CREATE-
VIEW.md#GUID-61D2D2B4-DACC-4C7C-89EB-7E50D9594D30__I2102873)", to all users,
issue the following statement:

    
    
    GRANT SELECT, UPDATE 
       ON emp_view TO PUBLIC; 
    

All users can subsequently query and update the view of employee details.

Granting Object Privileges to a Sequence in Another Schema: Example

To grant `SELECT` privilege on the `customers_seq` sequence in the schema `oe`
to the user `hr`, issue the following statement:

    
    
    GRANT SELECT 
       ON oe.customers_seq TO hr; 
    

The user `hr` can subsequently generate the next value of the sequence with
the following statement:

    
    
    SELECT oe.customers_seq.NEXTVAL 
       FROM DUAL; 

Granting Multiple Object Privileges on Individual Columns: Example

To grant to user `oe` the `REFERENCES` privilege on the `employee_id` column
and the `UPDATE` privilege on the `employee_id`, `salary`, and
`commission_pct` columns of the `employees` table in the schema `hr`, issue
the following statement:

    
    
    GRANT REFERENCES (employee_id), 
          UPDATE (employee_id, salary, commission_pct) 
       ON hr.employees
       TO oe; 
    

The user `oe` can subsequently update values of the `employee_id`, `salary`,
and `commission_pct` columns. User `oe` can also define referential integrity
constraints that refer to the `employee_id` column. However, because the
`GRANT` statement lists only these columns, `oe` cannot perform operations on
any of the other columns of the `employees` table.

For example, `oe` can create a table with a constraint:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE dependent 
       (dependno   NUMBER, 
        dependname VARCHAR2(10), 
        employee   NUMBER 
       CONSTRAINT in_emp REFERENCES hr.employees(employee_id) );
    

The constraint `in_emp` ensures that all dependents in the `dependent` table
correspond to an employee in the `employees` table in the schema `hr`.


[← Previous](FLASHBACK-TABLE.md)

[Next →](INSERT.md)
