[Previous](Sorting-Query-Results.md) [Next](Using-Subqueries.md)
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ SQL Queries and Subqueries](SQL-Queries-and-Subqueries.md)
  3. Joins 

## Joins

A join is a query that combines rows from two or more tables, views, or
materialized views. Oracle Database performs a join whenever multiple tables
appear in the `FROM` clause of the query. The select list of the query can
select any columns from any of these tables. If any two of these tables have a
column name in common, then you must qualify all references to these columns
throughout the query with table names to avoid ambiguity.

### Join Conditions

Most join queries contain at least one join condition, either in the `FROM`
clause or in the `WHERE` clause. The join condition compares two columns, each
from a different table. To execute a join, Oracle Database combines pairs of
rows, each containing one row from each table, for which the join condition
evaluates to `TRUE`. The columns in the join conditions need not also appear
in the select list.

To execute a join of three or more tables, Oracle first joins two of the
tables based on the join conditions comparing their columns and then joins the
result to another table based on join conditions containing columns of the
joined tables and the new table. Oracle continues this process until all
tables are joined into the result. The optimizer determines the order in which
Oracle joins tables based on the join conditions, indexes on the tables, and,
any available statistics for the tables.

A `WHERE` clause that contains a join condition can also contain other
conditions that refer to columns of only one table. These conditions can
further restrict the rows returned by the join query.

Note:

You cannot specify LOB columns in the `WHERE` clause if the `WHERE` clause
contains the join condition. The use of LOBs in `WHERE` clauses is also
subject to other restrictions. See [Oracle Database SecureFiles and Large
Objects Developer's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADLOB010) for more information.

### Equijoins

An equijoin is a join with a join condition containing an equality operator.
An equijoin combines rows that have equivalent values for the specified
columns. Depending on the internal algorithm the optimizer chooses to execute
the join, the total size of the columns in the equijoin condition in a single
table may be limited to the size of a data block minus some overhead. The size
of a data block is specified by the initialization parameter `DB_BLOCK_SIZE`.

See Also:

"[Using Join Queries: Examples](SELECT.md#GUID-
CFA006CA-6FF1-4972-821E-6996142A51C6__I2066611)"

### Band Joins

A band join is a special type of nonequijoin in which key values in one data
set must fall within the specified range (âbandâ) of the second data set.
The same table can serve as both the first and second data sets.

See Also:

  * [Database SQL Tuning Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=TGSQL-GUID-24F34188-110F-4245-9DE7-43954092AFE0) for more information on band joins 

  * [USE_BAND Hint](Comments.md#GUID-EE3246B9-3060-4F84-8C49-4524844E6B9C)

  * [NO_USE_BAND Hint](Comments.md#GUID-3406DC08-3D03-483B-8EFA-9D8E33AAEB2D)

### Self Joins

A self join is a join of a table to itself. This table appears twice in the
`FROM` clause and is followed by table aliases that qualify column names in
the join condition. To perform a self join, Oracle Database combines and
returns rows of the table that satisfy the join condition.

See Also:

"[Using Self Joins: Example](SELECT.md#GUID-
CFA006CA-6FF1-4972-821E-6996142A51C6__I2066652)"

### Cartesian Products

If two tables in a join query have no join condition, then Oracle Database
returns their Cartesian product. Oracle combines each row of one table with
each row of the other. A Cartesian product always generates many rows and is
rarely useful. For example, the Cartesian product of two tables, each with 100
rows, has 10,000 rows. Always include a join condition unless you specifically
need a Cartesian product. If a query joins three or more tables and you do not
specify a join condition for a specific pair, then the optimizer may choose a
join order that avoids producing an intermediate Cartesian product.

### Inner Joins

An inner join (sometimes called a simple join) is a join of two or more tables
that returns only those rows that satisfy the join condition.

### Outer Joins

An outer join extends the result of a simple join. An outer join returns all
rows that satisfy the join condition and also returns some or all of those
rows from one table for which no rows from the other satisfy the join
condition.

  * To write a query that performs an outer join of tables A and B and returns all rows from A (a left outer join), use the `LEFT` [`OUTER`] `JOIN` syntax in the `FROM` clause, or apply the outer join operator (+) to all columns of B in the join condition in the `WHERE` clause. For all rows in A that have no matching rows in B, Oracle Database returns null for any select list expressions containing columns of B. 

  * To write a query that performs an outer join of tables A and B and returns all rows from B (a right outer join), use the `RIGHT` [`OUTER`] `JOIN` syntax in the `FROM` clause, or apply the outer join operator (+) to all columns of A in the join condition in the `WHERE` clause. For all rows in B that have no matching rows in A, Oracle returns null for any select list expressions containing columns of A. 

  * To write a query that performs an outer join and returns all rows from A and B, extended with nulls if they do not satisfy the join condition (a full outer join), use the `FULL` [`OUTER`] `JOIN` syntax in the `FROM` clause. 

You cannot compare a column with a subquery in the `WHERE` clause of any outer
join, regardless which form you specify.

You can use outer joins to fill gaps in sparse data. Such a join is called a
partitioned outer join and is formed using the `query_partition_clause` of the
`join_clause` syntax. Sparse data is data that does not have rows for all
possible values of a dimension such as time or department. For example, tables
of sales data typically do not have rows for products that had no sales on a
given date. Filling data gaps is useful in situations where data sparsity
complicates analytic computation or where some data might be missed if the
sparse data is queried directly.

See Also:

  * [join_clause](SELECT.md#GUID-CFA006CA-6FF1-4972-821E-6996142A51C6__I2080416) for more information about using outer joins to fill gaps in sparse data 

  * [Oracle Database Data Warehousing Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=DWHSG02013) for a complete discussion of group outer joins and filling gaps in sparse data 

Oracle recommends that you use the `FROM` clause `OUTER` `JOIN` syntax rather
than the Oracle join operator. Outer join queries that use the Oracle join
operator (+) are subject to the following rules and restrictions, which do not
apply to the `FROM` clause `OUTER` `JOIN` syntax:

  * You cannot specify the (+) operator in a query block that also contains `FROM` clause join syntax. 

  * The (+) operator can appear only in the `WHERE` clause or, in the context of left-correlation (when specifying the `TABLE` clause) in the `FROM` clause, and can be applied only to a column of a table or view. 

  * If A and B are joined by multiple join conditions, then you must use the (+) operator in all of these conditions. If you do not, then Oracle Database will return only the rows resulting from a simple join, but without a warning or error to advise you that you do not have the results of an outer join.

  * The (+) operator does not produce an outer join if you specify one table in the outer query and the other table in an inner query.

  * You cannot use the (+) operator to outer-join a table to itself, although self joins are valid. For example, the following statement is not valid: 
    
        -- The following statement is not valid:
    SELECT employee_id, manager_id 
       FROM employees
       WHERE employees.manager_id(+) = employees.employee_id;
    

However, the following self join is valid:

    
        SELECT e1.employee_id, e1.manager_id, e2.employee_id
       FROM employees e1, employees e2
       WHERE e1.manager_id(+) = e2.employee_id
       ORDER BY e1.employee_id, e1.manager_id, e2.employee_id;

  * The (+) operator can be applied only to a column, not to an arbitrary expression. However, an arbitrary expression can contain one or more columns marked with the (+) operator. 

  * A `WHERE` condition containing the (+) operator cannot be combined with another condition using the `OR` logical operator. 

  * A `WHERE` condition cannot use the `IN` comparison condition to compare a column marked with the (+) operator with an expression. 

If the `WHERE` clause contains a condition that compares a column from table B
with a constant, then the (+) operator must be applied to the column so that
Oracle returns the rows from table A for which it has generated nulls for this
column. Otherwise Oracle returns only the results of a simple join.

In previous releases of Oracle Database, in a query that performed outer joins
of more than two pairs of tables, a single table could be the null-generated
table for only one other table. Beginning with Oracle Database 12c, a single
table can be the null-generated table for multiple tables. For example, the
following statement is allowed in Oracle Database 12c:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM A, B, D
      WHERE A.c1 = B.c2(+) and D.c3 = B.c4(+);
    

In this example, `B`, the null-generated table, is outer-joined to two tables,
`A` and `D`. Refer to [SELECT](SELECT.md#GUID-
CFA006CA-6FF1-4972-821E-6996142A51C6) for the syntax for an outer join.

### Antijoins

An antijoin returns rows from the left side of the predicate for which there
are no corresponding rows on the right side of the predicate. It returns rows
that fail to match (`NOT` `IN`) the subquery on the right side.

See Also:

"[Using Antijoins: Example](SELECT.md#GUID-
CFA006CA-6FF1-4972-821E-6996142A51C6__I2182875)"

### Semijoins

A semijoin returns rows that match an `EXISTS` subquery without duplicating
rows from the left side of the predicate when multiple rows on the right side
satisfy the criteria of the subquery.

Semijoin and antijoin transformation cannot be done if the subquery is on an
`OR` branch of the `WHERE` clause.

See Also:

"[Using Semijoins: Example](SELECT.md#GUID-
CFA006CA-6FF1-4972-821E-6996142A51C6__I2166436)"


[← Previous](Joins.md)

[Next →](Using-Subqueries.md)
