[Previous](JSON_TRANSFORM.md) [Next](json-type-constructor.md) JavaScript
must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. JSON_VALUE

## JSON_VALUE

Syntax

![Description of json_value.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_value.gif)  
[Description of the illustration json_value.eps](img_text/json_value.md)

JSON_basic_path_expression::=

(`JSON_basic_path_expression`: See [SQL/JSON Path
Expressions](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADJSN-GUID-7B610884-39CD-4910-85E7-C251D342D879))

JSON_value_returning_clause::=

![Description of json_value_returning_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_value_returning_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_value_returning_clause.eps](img_text/json_value_returning_clause.md)

JSON_value_return_type::=

![Description of json_value_return_type.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_value_return_type.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_value_return_type.eps](img_text/json_value_return_type.md)

JSON_value_return_object_instance ::=

  

![Description of json_value_return_object_instance.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_value_return_object_instance.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_value_return_object_instance.eps](img_text/json_value_return_object_instance.md)

  

JSON_value_mapper_clause ::=

![Description of json_value_mapper_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_value_mapper_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_value_mapper_clause.eps](img_text/json_value_mapper_clause.md)

JSON_value_on_error_clause::=

![Description of json_value_on_error_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_value_on_error_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_value_on_error_clause.eps](img_text/json_value_on_error_clause.md)

JSON_value_on_empty_clause::=

![Description of json_value_on_empty_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_value_on_empty_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_value_on_empty_clause.eps](img_text/json_value_on_empty_clause.md)

JSON_value_on_mismatch_clause::=

  

![Description of json_value_on_mismatch_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_value_on_mismatch_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_value_on_mismatch_clause.eps](img_text/json_value_on_mismatch_clause.md)

  

Purpose

SQL/JSON function `JSON_VALUE` selects JSON data and returns a SQL scalar or
an instance of a user-defined SQL object type or SQL collection type (varray,
nested table)

See Also:

  * [JSON TRANSFORM](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADJSN-GUID-7BED994B-EAA3-4FF0-824D-C12ADAB862C1) of the JSON Developer's Guide.

  * Appendix C in [Oracle Database Globalization Support Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG-GUID-AFCE41ED-775B-4A00-AF38-C436776AE0C5) for the collation derivation rules, which define the collation assigned to the value returned by this function when it is a character value 

expr

The first argument to `JSON_VALUE` `expr` is a SQL expression that returns an
instance of a scalar SQL data type (that is, not an object or collection data
type). A scalar value returned from`JSON_VALUE` can be of any of these data
types: `BINARY_DOUBLE`, `BINARY_FLOAT`, `BOOLEAN`, `CHAR`, `CLOB`, `DATE`,`
INTERVAL DAY TO SECOND`, `INTERVAL YEAR TO MONTH`, `NCHAR`, `NCLOB`,
`NVARCHAR2`, `NUMBER`, `RAW1`, `SDO_GEOMETRY`, `TIMESTAMP`, `TIMESTAMP WITH
TIME ZONE`, `VARCHAR2`, and `VECTOR`.

If `expr` is not a text literal of well-formed JSON data using strict or lax
syntax, then the function returns null by default. You can use the
`JSON_value_on_error_clause` to override this default behavior. Refer to the
[JSON_value_on_error_clause](JSON_VALUE.md#GUID-C7F19D36-1E75-4CB2-AE67-ADFBAD23CBC2__CJAHDAFG).

FORMAT JSON

You must specify `FORMAT` `JSON` if `expr` is a column of data type `BLOB`.

JSON_basic_path_expression

Use this clause to specify a SQL/JSON path expression. The function uses the
path expression to evaluate `expr` and find a scalar JSON value that matches,
or satisfies, the path expression. The path expression must be a text literal.
See [Oracle Database JSON Developer's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADJSN-GUID-7B610884-39CD-4910-85E7-C251D342D879) for the
full semantics of `JSON_basic_path_expression`.

JSON_value_returning_clause

Use this clause to specify the data type and format of the value returned by
this function.

RETURNING

Use the `RETURNING` clause to specify the data type of the return value. If
you omit this clause, then `JSON_VALUE` returns a value of type
`VARCHAR2(4000)`.

JSON_value_return_type ::=

You can use `JSON_value_return_type` to specify the following data types:

  * `VARCHAR2[(``size` `[BYTE,CHAR])]`

If you specify this data type, then the scalar value returned by this function
can be a character or number value. A number value will be implicitly
converted to a `VARCHAR2`. When specifying the `VARCHAR2` data type elsewhere
in SQL, you are required to specify a size. However, in this clause you can
omit the size. In this case, `JSON_VALUE` returns a value of type
`VARCHAR2(4000)`.

Specify the optional `TRUNCATE` clause immediately after `VARCHAR2(N)` to
truncate the return value to `N` characters, if the return value is greater
than `N` characters.

Notes on the `TRUNCATE` clause :

    * If the string value is too long, then `ORA-40478` is raised. 
    * If `TRUNCATE` is present, and the return value is not a character type, then a compile time error is raised. 
    * If `TRUNCATE` is present with `FORMAT JSON`, then the return value may contain data that is not syntactically correct JSON. 
    * `TRUNCATE` does not work with `EXISTS`. 
  * `CLOB`

Specify this data type to return a character large object containing single-
byte or multi-byte characters.

  * `NUMBER[(``precision` `[,` `scale``])]`

If you specify this data type, then the scalar value returned by this function
must be a number value. The scalar value returned can also be a JSON Boolean
value. Note however, that returning `NUMBER` for a JSON Boolean value is
deprecated.

  * `DATE`

If you specify this data type, then the scalar value returned by this function
must be a character value that can be implicitly converted to a `DATE` data
type. If the JSON input represents a date with a time component, specify `DATE
PRESERVE` `TIME` to retain the time component. If you do not want to retain
the time component, specify `DATE TRUNCATE` `TIME`.

If you specify neither `PRESERVE TIME` nor `TRUNCATE TIME`, the time component
is not preserved.

  * `TIMESTAMP`

If you specify this data type, then the scalar value returned by this function
must be a character value that can be implicitly converted to a `TIMESTAMP`
data type.

  * `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE`

If you specify this data type, then the scalar value returned by this function
must be a character value that can be implicitly converted to a `TIMESTAMP`
`WITH` `TIME` `ZONE` data type.

  * `BOOLEAN`

Specify `BOOLEAN` to return true, false, or unknown.

  * `SDO_GEOMETRY`

This data type is used for Oracle Spatial and Graph data. If you specify this
data type, then `expr` must evaluate to a text literal containing GeoJSON
data, which is a format for encoding geographic data in JSON. If you specify
this data type, then the scalar value returned by this function must be an
object of type `SDO_GEOMETRY`.

  * JSON_value_return_object_instance

If `JSON_VALUE` targets a JSON object, and you specify a user-defined SQL
object type as the return type, then `JSON_VALUE` returns an instance of that
object type in object_type_name.

For examples see [Using JSON_VALUE To Instantiate a User-Defined Object Type
Instance](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADJSN-GUID-622170D8-7BAD-4F5F-86BF-C328451FC3BE) of the
JSON Developer's Guide.

See Also:

  * [SQL/JSON Function JSON_VALUE](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADJSN-GUID-0565F0EE-5F13-44DD-8321-2AC142959215) for a conceptual understanding in the JSON Developer's Guide.

  * Refer to "[Data Types](Data-Types.md#GUID-A3C0D836-BADB-44E5-A5D4-265BA5968483)" for more information on the preceding data types. 

  * If the data type is not large enough to hold the return value, then this function returns null by default. You can use the `JSON_value_on_error_clause` to override this default behavior. Refer to the [JSON_value_on_error_clause](JSON_VALUE.md#GUID-C7F19D36-1E75-4CB2-AE67-ADFBAD23CBC2__CJAHDAFG). 

ASCII

Specify `ASCII` to automatically escape any non-ASCII Unicode characters in
the return value, using standard ASCII Unicode escape sequences.

JSON_value_on_error_clause

Use this clause to specify the value returned by this function when the
following errors occur:

  * `expr` is not well-formed JSON data using strict or lax JSON syntax 

  * A nonscalar value is found when the JSON data is evaluated using the SQL/JSON path expression

  * No match is found when the JSON data is evaluated using the SQL/JSON path expression. You can override the behavior for this type of error by specifying the `JSON_value_on_empty_clause`. 

  * The return value data type is not large enough to hold the return value

You can specify the following clauses:

  * `NULL` `ON` `ERROR` \- Returns null when an error occurs. This is the default. 

  * `ERROR` `ON` `ERROR` \- Returns the appropriate Oracle error when an error occurs. 

  * `DEFAULT` `literal` `ON` `ERROR` \- Returns `literal` when an error occurs. The data type of `literal` must match the data type of the value returned by this function. 

JSON_value_on_empty_clause

Use this clause to specify the value returned by this function if no match is
found when the JSON data is evaluated using the SQL/JSON path expression. This
clause allows you to specify a different outcome for this type of error than
the outcome specified with the `JSON_value_on_error_clause`.

You can specify the following clauses:

  * `NULL` `ON` `EMPTY` \- Returns null when no match is found. 

  * `ERROR` `ON` `EMPTY` \- Returns the appropriate Oracle error when no match is found. 

  * `DEFAULT` `literal` `ON` `EMPTY` \- Returns `literal` when no match is found. The data type of `literal` must match the data type of the value returned by this function. 

If you omit this clause, then the `JSON_value_on_error_clause` determines the
value returned when no match is found.

JSON_value_on_mismatch_clause

The `JSON_value_on_mismatch_clause` applies when a type conversion fails, for
example when you try to convert a JSON number to a SQL date.

If the return type of `JSON_VALUE` is a SQL scalar like `NUMBER` or `DATE` ,
then `ON MISMATCH` applies for all type conversion errors - no further
specification is required. `ERROR` and `NULL` are valid options.

Example

    
    
    select json_value( '{a:"cat"}','$.a.number()'  NULL ON EMPTY                                                 
     ERROR ON  MISMATCH  DEFAULT -1 ON ERROR ) from dual;
     ORA-01722: invalid number

If the return type is an object type, then `ON MISMATCH` can be further
specified with `MISSING DATA`, `EXTRA DATA` and `TYPE ERROR`. You can use it
generally to apply to all error cases, or you can use it case by case by
specifying different `ON MISMATCH` clauses for each case.

Examples

    
    
    IGNORE ON MISMATCH (EXTRA DATA)
    
    
    ERROR ON MISMATCH ( MISSING DATA, TYPE ERROR)

The option `IGNORE` is only valid when the return type is an object type.

Examples

The following query returns the value of the member with property name `a`.
Because the `RETURNING` clause is not specified, the value is returned as a
`VARCHAR2(4000)` data type:

    
    
    SELECT JSON_VALUE('{a:100}', '$.a') AS value
      FROM DUAL;
    
    VALUE
    -----
    100
    

The following query returns the value of the member with property name `a`.
Because the `RETURNING` `NUMBER` clause is specified, the value is returned as
a `NUMBER` data type:

    
    
    SELECT JSON_VALUE('{a:100}', '$.a' RETURNING NUMBER) AS value
      FROM DUAL;
    
         VALUE
    ----------
           100
    

The following query returns the value of the member with property name `b`,
which is in the value of the member with property name `a`:

    
    
    SELECT JSON_VALUE('{a:{b:100}}', '$.a.b') AS value
      FROM DUAL;
    
    VALUE
    -----
    100
    

The following query returns the value of the member with property name `d` in
any object:

    
    
    SELECT JSON_VALUE('{a:{b:100}, c:{d:200}, e:{f:300}}', '$.*.d') AS value
      FROM DUAL;
    
    VALUE
    -----
    200
    

The following query returns the value of the first element in an array:

    
    
    SELECT JSON_VALUE('[0, 1, 2, 3]', '$[0]') AS value
      FROM DUAL;
    
    VALUE
    -----
    0
    

The following query returns the value of the third element in an array. The
array is the value of the member with property name `a`.

    
    
    SELECT JSON_VALUE('{a:[5, 10, 15, 20]}', '$.a[2]') AS value
      FROM DUAL;
    
    VALUE
    -----
    15
    

The following query returns the value of the member with property name `a` in
the second object in an array:

    
    
    SELECT JSON_VALUE('[{a:100}, {a:200}, {a:300}]', '$[1].a') AS value
      FROM DUAL;
    
    VALUE
    -----
    200
    

The following query returns the value of the member with property name `c` in
any object in an array:

    
    
    SELECT JSON_VALUE('[{a:100}, {b:200}, {c:300}]', '$[*].c') AS value
      FROM DUAL;
    
    VALUE
    -----
    300
    

The following query attempts to return the value of the member that has
property name `lastname`. However, such a member does not exist in the
specified JSON data, resulting in no match. Because the `ON` `ERROR` clause is
not specified, the statement uses the default `NULL` `ON` `ERROR` and returns
null.

    
    
    SELECT JSON_VALUE('{firstname:"John"}', '$.lastname') AS "Last Name"
      FROM DUAL;
    
    Last Name
    ---------
    
    

The following query results in an error because it attempts to return the
value of the member with property name `lastname`, which does not exist in the
specified JSON. Because the `ON` `ERROR` clause is specified, the statement
returns the specified text literal.

    
    
    SELECT JSON_VALUE('{firstname:"John"}', '$.lastname'
                      DEFAULT 'No last name found' ON ERROR) AS "Last Name"
      FROM DUAL;
    
    Last Name
    ---------
    No last name found


[← Previous](JSON_TRANSFORM.md)

[Next →](json-type-constructor.md)
