[Previous](JSON_SERIALIZE.md) [Next](JSON_TRANSFORM.md) JavaScript must be
enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. JSON_TABLE

## JSON_TABLE

Syntax

![Description of json_table.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_table.gif)  
[Description of the illustration json_table.eps](img_text/json_table.md)

(`JSON_basic_path_expression`: See [Oracle Database JSON Developer's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADJSN-GUID-8241AE93-89BE-40E6-89E2-8F9C1A9244F4),
[JSON_table_on_error_clause::=](JSON_TABLE.md#GUID-3C8E63B5-0B94-4E86-A2D3-3D4831B67C62__CJAGFDBA),
[JSON_columns_clause::=](JSON_TABLE.md#GUID-3C8E63B5-0B94-4E86-A2D3-3D4831B67C62__CJAHEFGD))

JSON_table_on_error_clause::=

  

![Description of json_table_on_error_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_table_on_error_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_table_on_error_clause.eps](img_text/json_table_on_error_clause.md)

  

JSON_table_on_empty_clause::=

  

![Description of json_table_on_empty_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_table_on_empty_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_table_on_empty_clause.eps](img_text/json_table_on_empty_clause.md)

  

JSON_columns_clause::=

![Description of json_columns_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_columns_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_columns_clause.eps](img_text/json_columns_clause.md)

JSON_column_definition::=

![Description of json_column_definition.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_column_definition.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_column_definition.eps](img_text/json_column_definition.md)

JSON_exists_column::=

![Description of json_exists_column.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_exists_column.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_exists_column.eps](img_text/json_exists_column.md)

([JSON_value_return_type::=](JSON_VALUE.md#GUID-C7F19D36-1E75-4CB2-AE67-ADFBAD23CBC2__CJABCIJE)âpart
of `JSON_VALUE`, `JSON_basic_path_expression`: See [Oracle Database JSON
Developer's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADJSN-GUID-8241AE93-89BE-40E6-89E2-8F9C1A9244F4),
[JSON_exists_on_error_clause::=](SQL-JSON-
Conditions.md#GUID-57762C80-0C8A-4B18-9BA7-9B3F5ABDC988__BABGJJFD)âpart of
`JSON_EXISTS`)

JSON_query_column::=

![Description of json_query_column.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_query_column.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_query_column.eps](img_text/json_query_column.md)

([JSON_query_return_type::=](JSON_QUERY.md#GUID-6D396EC4-D2AA-43D2-8F5D-08D646A4A2D9__CJADJIIJ),
[JSON_query_wrapper_clause::=](JSON_QUERY.md#GUID-6D396EC4-D2AA-43D2-8F5D-08D646A4A2D9__CJAGGHHG),
and
[JSON_query_on_error_clause::=](JSON_QUERY.md#GUID-6D396EC4-D2AA-43D2-8F5D-08D646A4A2D9__CJACIDGJ)âpart
of `JSON_QUERY`, `JSON_basic_path_expression`: See [Oracle Database JSON
Developer's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADJSN-GUID-8241AE93-89BE-40E6-89E2-8F9C1A9244F4))

JSON_value_column::=

![Description of json_value_column.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_value_column.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_value_column.eps](img_text/json_value_column.md)

([JSON_value_return_type::=](JSON_VALUE.md#GUID-C7F19D36-1E75-4CB2-AE67-ADFBAD23CBC2__CJABCIJE)
and
[JSON_value_on_error_clause::=](JSON_VALUE.md#GUID-C7F19D36-1E75-4CB2-AE67-ADFBAD23CBC2__CJAHCAIE)âpart
of `JSON_VALUE`, `JSON_basic_path_expression`: See [Oracle Database JSON
Developer's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADJSN-GUID-8241AE93-89BE-40E6-89E2-8F9C1A9244F4))

JSON_nested_path::=

![Description of json_nested_path.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_nested_path.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_nested_path.eps](img_text/json_nested_path.md)

(`JSON_basic_path_expression`: See [Oracle Database JSON Developer's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADJSN-GUID-8241AE93-89BE-40E6-89E2-8F9C1A9244F4),
[JSON_columns_clause::=](JSON_TABLE.md#GUID-3C8E63B5-0B94-4E86-A2D3-3D4831B67C62__CJAHEFGD))

ordinality_column::=

![Description of ordinality_column.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/ordinality_column.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
ordinality_column.eps](img_text/ordinality_column.md)

JSON_path ::=

![Description of json_path.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_path.gif)  
[Description of the illustration json_path.eps](img_text/json_path.md)

JSON_relative_object_access ::=

![Description of json_relative_object_access.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/json_relative_object_access.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
json_relative_object_access.eps](img_text/json_relative_object_access.md)

nested_clause ::=

  

![Description of nested_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/nested_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
nested_clause.eps](img_text/nested_clause.md)

  

Purpose

The SQL/JSON function `JSON_TABLE` creates a relational view of JSON data. It
maps the result of a JSON data evaluation into relational rows and columns.
You can query the result returned by the function as a virtual relational
table using SQL. The main purpose of `JSON_TABLE` is to create a row of
relational data for each object inside a JSON array and output JSON values
from within that object as individual SQL column values.

You must specify `JSON_TABLE` only in the `FROM` clause of a `SELECT`
statement. The function first applies a path expression, called a SQL/JSON row
path expression, to the supplied JSON data. The JSON value that matches the
row path expression is called a row source in that it generates a row of
relational data. The `COLUMNS` clause evaluates the row source, finds specific
JSON values within the row source, and returns those JSON values as SQL values
in individual columns of a row of relational data.

The `COLUMNS` clause enables you to search for JSON values in different ways
by using the following clauses:

  * `JSON_exists_column` \- Evaluates JSON data in the same manner as the `JSON_EXISTS` condition, that is, determines if a specified JSON value exists, and returns either a `VARCHAR2` column of values '`true`' or '`false`', or a `NUMBER` column of values 1 or 0. 

  * `JSON_query_column` \- Evaluates JSON data in the same manner as the `JSON_QUERY` function, that is, finds one or more specified JSON values, and returns a column of character strings that contain those JSON values. 

  * `JSON_value_column` \- Evaluates JSON data in the same manner as the `JSON_VALUE` function, that is, finds a specified scalar JSON value, and returns a column of those JSON values as SQL values. 

  * `JSON_nested_path` \- Allows you to flatten JSON values in a nested JSON object or JSON array into individual columns in a single row along with JSON values from the parent object or array. You can use this clause recursively to project data from multiple layers of nested objects or arrays into a single row. 

  * `ordinality_column` \- Returns a column of generated row numbers. 

The column definition clauses allow you to specify a name for each column of
data that they return. You can reference these column names elsewhere in the
`SELECT` statement, such as in the `SELECT` list and the `WHERE` clause.

See Also:

Appendix C in [Oracle Database Globalization Support
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG-GUID-AFCE41ED-775B-4A00-AF38-C436776AE0C5) for the
collation derivation rules, which define the collation assigned to each
character data type column in the table generated by `JSON_TABLE`

expr

Use this clause to specify the JSON data to be evaluated. For `expr`, specify
an expression that evaluates to a text literal. If `expr` is a column, then
the column must be of data type `VARCHAR2`, `CLOB`, or `BLOB`. If `expr` is
null, then the function returns null.

If `expr` is not a text literal of well-formed JSON data using strict or lax
syntax, then the function returns null by default. You can use the
`JSON_table_on_error_clause` to override this default behavior. Refer to
[JSON_table_on_error_clause](JSON_TABLE.md#GUID-3C8E63B5-0B94-4E86-A2D3-3D4831B67C62__CJABIHAJ).

FORMAT JSON

You must specify `FORMAT` `JSON` if `expr` is a column of data type `BLOB`.

PATH

Use the `PATH` clause to delineate a portion of the row that you want to use
as the column content. The absence of the `PATH` clause does not change the
behavior with a path of `'$.<column-name>'`, where `<column-name>` is the
column name. The name of the object field that is targeted is taken implicitly
as the column name. See [Oracle Database JSON Developer's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADJSN-GUID-0172660F-CE29-4765-BF2C-C405BDE8369A) for the
full semantics of `PATH`.

JSON_basic_path_expression

The `JSON_basic_path_expression` is a text literal. See [Oracle Database JSON
Developer's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADJSN-GUID-0172660F-CE29-4765-BF2C-C405BDE8369A) for the
full semantics of this clause.

JSON_relative_object_access

Specify this row path expression to enable simple dot notation. The value of
`JSON_relative_object_access` is evaluated as a JSON/Path expression relative
to the current row item.

For more information on the `JSON_object_key clause`, refer to [JSON Object
Access Expressions](JSON-Object-Access-
Expressions.md#GUID-09D1A154-335D-484E-A7A2-DA1983CD511C) .

JSON_table_on_error_clause

Use this clause to specify the value returned by the function when errors
occur:

  * `NULL ON ERROR`

    * If the input is not well-formed `JSON `text, no more rows will be returned as soon as the error is detected. Note that since `JSON_TABLE` supports streaming evaluation, rows may be returned prior to encountering the portion of the input with the error. 

    * If no match is found when the row path expression is evaluated, no rows are returned.

    * Sets the default error behavior for all column expressions to `NULL ON ERROR`

  * `ERROR ON ERROR`

    * If the input is not well-formed `JSON ` text, an error will be raised. 

    * If no match is found when the row path expression is evaluated, an error will be raised

    * Sets the default error behavior for all column expressions to `ERROR ON ERROR`

JSON_table_on_empty_clause

Use this clause to specify the value returned by this function if no match is
found when the JSON data is evaluated using the SQL/JSON path expression. This
clause allows you to specify a different outcome for this type of error than
the outcome specified with the `JSON_table_on_error_clause.`

You can specify the following clauses:

  * `NULL` `ON` `EMPTY` \- Returns null when no match is found. 

  * `ERROR` `ON` `EMPTY` \- Returns the appropriate Oracle error when no match is found. 

  * `DEFAULT` `literal` `ON` `EMPTY` \- Returns `literal` when no match is found. The data type of `literal` must match the data type of the value returned by this function. 

If you omit this clause, then the `JSON_table_on_error_clause` determines the
value returned when no match is found.

JSON_columns_clause

Use the `COLUMNS` clause to define the columns in the virtual relational table
returned by the `JSON_TABLE` function.

JSON_exists_column

This clause evaluates JSON data in the same manner as the `JSON_EXISTS`
condition, that is, it determines if a specified JSON value exists. It returns
either a `VARCHAR2` column of values '`true`' or '`false`', or a `NUMBER`
column of values 1 or 0.

A value of '`true`' or 1 indicates that the JSON value exists and a value of
'`false`' or 0 indicates that the JSON value does not exist.

You can use the `JSON_value_return_type` clause to control the data type of
the returned column. If you omit this clause, then the data type is
`VARCHAR2(4000)`. Use `column_name` to specify the name of the returned
column. The rest of the clauses of `JSON_exists_column` have the same
semantics here as they have for the `JSON_EXISTS` condition. For full
information on these clauses, refer to "[JSON_EXISTS Condition](SQL-JSON-
Conditions.md#GUID-57762C80-0C8A-4B18-9BA7-9B3F5ABDC988)". Also see "[Using
JSON_exists_column:
Examples](JSON_TABLE.md#GUID-3C8E63B5-0B94-4E86-A2D3-3D4831B67C62__CJAJGGJC)"
for an example.

JSON_query_column

This clause evaluates JSON data in the same manner as the `JSON_QUERY`
function, that is, it finds one or more specified JSON values, and returns a
column of character strings that contain those JSON values.

Use `column_name` to specify the name of the returned column. The rest of the
clauses of `JSON_query_column` have the same semantics here as they have for
the `JSON_QUERY` function. For full information on these clauses, refer to
[JSON_QUERY](JSON_QUERY.md#GUID-6D396EC4-D2AA-43D2-8F5D-08D646A4A2D9). Also
see "[Using JSON_query_column:
Examples](JSON_TABLE.md#GUID-3C8E63B5-0B94-4E86-A2D3-3D4831B67C62__CJAEJCEF)"
for an example.

JSON_value_column

This clause evaluates JSON data in the same manner as the `JSON_VALUE`
function, that is, it finds a specified scalar JSON value, and returns a
column of those JSON values as SQL values.

Use `column_name` to specify the name of the returned column. The rest of the
clauses of `JSON_value_column` have the same semantics here as they have for
the `JSON_VALUE` function. For full information on these clauses, refer to
[JSON_VALUE](JSON_VALUE.md#GUID-C7F19D36-1E75-4CB2-AE67-ADFBAD23CBC2). Also
see "[Using JSON_value_column:
Examples](JSON_TABLE.md#GUID-3C8E63B5-0B94-4E86-A2D3-3D4831B67C62__CJAFACBH)"
for an example.

JSON_nested_path

Use this clause to flatten JSON values in a nested JSON object or JSON array
into individual columns in a single row along with JSON values from the parent
object or array. You can use this clause recursively to project data from
multiple layers of nested objects or arrays into a single row.

Specify the `JSON_basic_path_expression` clause to match the nested object or
array. This path expression is relative to the SQL/JSON row path expression
specified in the `JSON_TABLE` function.

Use the `COLUMNS` clause to define the columns of the nested object or array
to be returned. This clause is recursiveâyou can specify the
`JSON_nested_path` clause within another `JSON_nested_path` clause. Also see
"[Using JSON_nested_path:
Examples](JSON_TABLE.md#GUID-3C8E63B5-0B94-4E86-A2D3-3D4831B67C62__CJAJAEJD)"
for an example.

ordinality_column

This clause returns a column of generated row numbers of data type `NUMBER`.
You can specify at most one `ordinality_column`. Also see "[Using
JSON_value_column:
Examples](JSON_TABLE.md#GUID-3C8E63B5-0B94-4E86-A2D3-3D4831B67C62__CJAFACBH)"
for an example of using the `ordinality_column` clause.

nested_clause

Use the `nested_clause` as a short-hand syntax for mapping JSON values to
relational columns. It reuses the syntax of the `JSON_TABLE` columns clause
and is essentially equivalent to a left-outer ANSI join with `JSON_TABLE`.

Example 1 using the nested_clause is equivalent to Example 2 using the left-
outer join with `JSON_TABLE` .

Example 1 Nested_Clause

    
    
    SELECT t.*
    FROM j_purchaseOrder
    NESTED po_document COLUMNS(PONumber, Reference, Requestor) t;
    PONUMBER REFERENCE REQUESTOR
    --------------- ------------------------------ -----------------------------
    1600 ABULL-20140421 Alexis Bull

Example 2 Left-Outer Join With JSON_TABLE

    
    
    SELECT t.*
    FROM j_purchaseOrder LEFT OUTER JOIN
    JSON_TABLE(po_document COLUMNS(PONumber, Reference, Requestor)) t ON 1=1;

When using the `nested_clause`, the JSON column name following the `NESTED`
keyword will not be included in `SELECT *` expansion. For example:

    
    
    SELECT *
    FROM j_purchaseOrder
    NESTED po_document.LineItems[*]
    COLUMNS(ItemNumber, Quantity NUMBER);
    ID DATE_LOADED ITEMN QUANTITY
    ------------------------ ---------------------------------------- ------- -----------
    6C5589E9A9156â¦ 16-MAY-18 08.40.30.397688 AM -07:00 1 9
    6C5589E9A9156â¦ 16-MAY-18 08.40.30.397688 AM -07:00 2 5

The result does not include the JSON column name `po_document` as one of the
columns in the result.

When unnesting JSON column data, the recommendation is to use `LEFT OUTER
JOIN` semantics, so that JSON columns that produce no rows will not filter
other non-JSON data from the result. For example,a ` j_purchaseOrder` row with
a NULL `po_document` column will not filter the possibly non-null relational
`columns id` and `date_loaded` from the result.

The columns clause supports all the same features defined for `JSON_TABLE`
including nested columns. For example:

    
    
    SELECT t.*
    FROM j_purchaseorder 
    NESTED po_document COLUMNS(PONumber, Reference,
    NESTED LineItems[*] COLUMNS(ItemNumber, Quantity)
    ) t
    PONUMBER REFERENCE ITEMN QUANTITY
    --------------- ------------------------------ ----- ------------
    1600 ABULL-20140421 1 9
    1600 ABULL-20140421 2 5

Examples

Creating a Table That Contains a JSON Document: Example

This example shows how to create and populate table `j_purchaseorder`, which
is used in the rest of the `JSON_TABLE` examples in this section.

The following statement creates table `j_purchaseorder`. Column `po_document`
is for storing JSON data and, therefore, has an `IS` `JSON` check constraint
to ensure that only well-formed JSON is stored in the column.

    
    
    CREATE TABLE j_purchaseorder
      (id RAW (16) NOT NULL,
       date_loaded TIMESTAMP(6) WITH TIME ZONE,
       po_document CLOB CONSTRAINT ensure_json CHECK (po_document IS JSON));
    

The following statement inserts one row, or one JSON document, into table
`j_purchaseorder`:

    
    
    INSERT INTO j_purchaseorder
      VALUES (
        SYS_GUID(),
        SYSTIMESTAMP,
        '{"PONumber"              : 1600,
          "Reference"             : "ABULL-20140421",
           "Requestor"            : "Alexis Bull",
           "User"                 : "ABULL",
           "CostCenter"           : "A50",
           "ShippingInstructions" : {"name"   : "Alexis Bull",
                                     "Address": {"street"   : "200 Sporting Green",
                                                  "city"    : "South San Francisco",
                                                  "state"   : "CA",
                                                  "zipCode" : 99236,
                                                  "country" : "United States of America"},
                                     "Phone" : [{"type" : "Office", "number" : "909-555-7307"},
                                                {"type" : "Mobile", "number" : "415-555-1234"}]},
           "Special Instructions" : null,
           "AllowPartialShipment" : true,
           "LineItems" : [{"ItemNumber" : 1,
                           "Part" : {"Description" : "One Magic Christmas",
                                     "UnitPrice"   : 19.95,
                                     "UPCCode"     : 13131092899},
                           "Quantity" : 9.0},
                          {"ItemNumber" : 2,
                           "Part" : {"Description" : "Lethal Weapon",
                                     "UnitPrice"   : 19.95,
                                     "UPCCode"     : 85391628927},
                           "Quantity" : 5.0}]}');
    

Using JSON_query_column: Examples

The statement in this example queries JSON data for a specific JSON property
using the `JSON_query_column` clause, and returns the property value in a
column.

The statement first applies a SQL/JSON row path expression to column
`po_document`, which results in a match to the `ShippingInstructions`
property. The `COLUMNS` clause then uses the `JSON_query_column` clause to
return the `Phone` property value in a `VARCHAR2(100)` column.

    
    
    SELECT jt.phones
    FROM j_purchaseorder,
    JSON_TABLE(po_document, '$.ShippingInstructions'
    COLUMNS
      (phones VARCHAR2(100) FORMAT JSON PATH '$.Phone')) AS jt;
    
    
    
    PHONES
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [{"type":"Office","number":"909-555-7307"},{"type":"Mobile","number":"415-555-1234"}]
    

Using JSON_value_column: Examples

The statement in this example refines the statement in the previous example by
querying JSON data for specific JSON values using the `JSON_value_column`
clause, and returns the JSON values as SQL values in relational rows and
columns.

The statement first applies a SQL/JSON row path expression to column
`po_document`, which results in a match to the elements in the JSON array
`Phone`. These elements are JSON objects that contain two members named `type`
and `number`. The statement uses the `COLUMNS` clause to return the `type`
value for each object in a `VARCHAR2(10)` column called `phone_type`, and the
`number` value for each object in a `VARCHAR2(20)` column called `phone_num`.
The statement also returns an ordinal column named `row_number`.

    
    
    SELECT jt.*
    FROM j_purchaseorder,
    JSON_TABLE(po_document, '$.ShippingInstructions.Phone[*]'
    COLUMNS (row_number FOR ORDINALITY,
             phone_type VARCHAR2(10) PATH '$.type',
             phone_num VARCHAR2(20) PATH '$.number'))
    AS jt;
    
    ROW_NUMBER PHONE_TYPE PHONE_NUM
    ---------- ---------- --------------------
             1 Office     909-555-7307
             2 Mobile     415-555-1234
    

Using JSON_exists_column: Examples

The statements in this example test whether a JSON value exists in JSON data
using the `JSON_exists_column` clause. The first example returns the result of
the test as a '`true`' or '`false`' value in a column. The second example uses
the result of the test in the `WHERE` clause.

The following statement first applies a SQL/JSON row path expression to column
`po_document`, which results in a match to the entire context item, or JSON
document. It then uses the `COLUMNS` clause to return the requestor's name and
a string value of '`true`' or '`false`' indicating whether the JSON data for
that requestor contains a zip code. The `COLUMNS` clause first uses the
`JSON_value_column` clause to return the `Requestor` value in a `VARCHAR2(32)`
column called `requestor`. It then uses the `JSON_exists_column` clause to
determine if the `zipCode` object exists and returns the result in a
`VARCHAR2(5)` column called `has_zip`.

    
    
    SELECT requestor, has_zip
    FROM j_purchaseorder,
    JSON_TABLE(po_document, '$'
    COLUMNS
      (requestor VARCHAR2(32) PATH '$.Requestor',
       has_zip VARCHAR2(5) EXISTS PATH '$.ShippingInstructions.Address.zipCode'));
    
    REQUESTOR                        HAS_ZIP
    -------------------------------- -------
    Alexis Bull                      true
    

The following statement is similar to the previous statement, except that it
uses the value of `has_zip` in the `WHERE` clause to determine whether to
return the `Requestor` value:

    
    
    SELECT requestor
    FROM j_purchaseorder,
    JSON_TABLE(po_document, '$'
    COLUMNS
      (requestor VARCHAR2(32) PATH '$.Requestor',
       has_zip VARCHAR2(5) EXISTS PATH '$.ShippingInstructions.Address.zipCode'))
    WHERE (has_zip = 'true');
    
    REQUESTOR
    --------------------------------
    Alexis Bull

Using JSON_nested_path: Examples

The following two simple statements demonstrate the functionality of the
`JSON_nested_path` clause. They operate on a simple JSON array that contains
three elements. The first two elements are numbers. The third element is a
nested JSON array that contains two string value elements.

The following statement does not use the `JSON_nested_path` clause. It returns
the three elements in the array in a single row. The nested array is returned
in its entirety.

    
    
    SELECT *
    FROM JSON_TABLE('[1,2,["a","b"]]', '$'
    COLUMNS (outer_value_0 NUMBER PATH '$[0]',
             outer_value_1 NUMBER PATH '$[1]', 
             outer_value_2 VARCHAR2(20) FORMAT JSON PATH '$[2]'));
    
    OUTER_VALUE_0 OUTER_VALUE_1 OUTER_VALUE_2
    ------------- ------------- --------------------
                1             2 ["a","b"]
    

The following statement is different from the previous statement because it
uses the `JSON_nested_path` clause to return the individual elements of the
nested array in individual columns in a single row along with the parent array
elements.

    
    
    SELECT *
    FROM JSON_TABLE('[1,2,["a","b"]]', '$'
    COLUMNS (outer_value_0 NUMBER PATH '$[0]',
             outer_value_1 NUMBER PATH '$[1]',
             NESTED PATH '$[2]'
             COLUMNS (nested_value_0 VARCHAR2(1) PATH '$[0]',
                      nested_value_1 VARCHAR2(1) PATH '$[1]')));
    
    OUTER_VALUE_0 OUTER_VALUE_1 NESTED_VALUE_0 NESTED_VALUE_1
    ------------- ------------- -------------- --------------
                1             2 a              b
    

The previous example shows how to use `JSON_nested_path` with a nested JSON
array. The following example shows how to use the `JSON_nested_path` clause
with a nested JSON object by returning the individual elements of the nested
object in individual columns in a single row along with the parent object
elements.

    
    
    SELECT *
    FROM JSON_TABLE('{a:100, b:200, c:{d:300, e:400}}', '$'
    COLUMNS (outer_value_0 NUMBER PATH '$.a',
             outer_value_1 NUMBER PATH '$.b',
             NESTED PATH '$.c'
             COLUMNS (nested_value_0 NUMBER PATH '$.d',
                      nested_value_1 NUMBER PATH '$.e')));
    
    OUTER_VALUE_0 OUTER_VALUE_1 NESTED_VALUE_0 NESTED_VALUE_1
    ------------- ------------- -------------- --------------
              100           200            300            400
    

The following statement uses the `JSON_nested_path` clause when querying the
`j_purchaseorder` table. It first applies a row path expression to column
`po_document`, which results in a match to the entire context item, or JSON
document. It then uses the `COLUMNS` clause to return the `Requestor` value in
a `VARCHAR2(32)` column called `requestor`. It then uses the
`JSON_nested_path` clause to return the property values of the individual
objects in each member of the nested `Phone` array. Note that a row is
generated for each member of the nested array, and each row contains the
corresponding `Requestor` value.

    
    
    SELECT jt.*
    FROM j_purchaseorder,
    JSON_TABLE(po_document, '$'
    COLUMNS
      (requestor VARCHAR2(32) PATH '$.Requestor',
       NESTED PATH '$.ShippingInstructions.Phone[*]'
         COLUMNS (phone_type VARCHAR2(32) PATH '$.type',
                  phone_num VARCHAR2(20) PATH '$.number')))
    AS jt;
     
     
    REQUESTOR            PHONE_TYPE           PHONE_NUM
    -------------------- -------------------- ---------------
    Alexis Bull          Office               909-555-7307
    Alexis Bull          Mobile               415-555-1234

The following example shows the use of simple dot-notation in
`JSON_nested_path` and its equivalent without dot notation.

    
    
    SELECT c.*
    FROM customer t,
    JSON_TABLE(t.json COLUMNS(
    id, name, phone, address,
    NESTED orders[*] COLUMNS(
    updated, status,
    NESTED lineitems[*] COLUMNS(
    description, quantity NUMBER, price NUMBER
    )
    )
    )) c;

The above statement in dot notation is equivalent to the following one without
dot notation:

    
    
    SELECT c.*
    FROM customer t,
    JSON_TABLE(t.json, '$' COLUMNS(
    id PATH '$.id',
    name PATH '$.name',
    phone PATH '$.phone',
    address PATH '$.address',
    NESTED PATH '$.orders[*]' COLUMNS(
    updated PATH '$.updated',
    status PATH '$.status',
    NESTED PATH '$.lineitems[*]' COLUMNS(
    description PATH '$.description',
    quantity NUMBER PATH '$.quantity',
    price NUMBER PATH '$.price'
    )
    )
    )) c;


[← Previous](JSON_SERIALIZE.md)

[Next →](JSON_TRANSFORM.md)
