[Previous](LENGTH.md) [Next](LN.md) JavaScript must be enabled to
correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. LISTAGG 

## LISTAGG

Syntax

![Description of listagg.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/listagg.gif)  
[Description of the illustration listagg.eps](img_text/listagg.md)

([listagg_overflow_clause::=](LISTAGG.md#GUID-B6E50D8E-F467-425B-9436-F7F8BF38D466__LISTAGG_OVERFLOW_CLAUSE-1E9397E4),
[order_by_clause::=](Analytic-
Functions.md#GUID-527832F7-63C0-4445-8C16-307FA5084056__ORDER_BY_CLAUSE-1E92A06C),
[query_partition_clause::=](Analytic-
Functions.md#GUID-527832F7-63C0-4445-8C16-307FA5084056__QUERY_PARTITION_CLAUSE-1E92A25F))

listagg_overflow_clause::=

![Description of listagg_overflow_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/listagg_overflow_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
listagg_overflow_clause.eps](img_text/listagg_overflow_clause.md)

See Also:

"[Analytic Functions](Analytic-
Functions.md#GUID-527832F7-63C0-4445-8C16-307FA5084056)" for information on
syntax, semantics, and restrictions of the `ORDER` `BY` clause and `OVER`
clause

Purpose

For a specified measure, `LISTAGG` orders data within each group specified in
the `ORDER` `BY` clause and then concatenates the values of the measure
column.

  * As a single-set aggregate function, `LISTAGG` operates on all rows and returns a single output row. 

  * As a group-set aggregate, the function operates on and returns an output row for each group defined by the `GROUP` `BY` clause. 

  * As an analytic function, `LISTAGG` partitions the query result set into groups based on one or more expression in the `query_partition_clause`. 

The arguments to the function are subject to the following rules:

  * The `ALL` keyword is optional and is provided for semantic clarity. 

  * The `measure_expr` is the measure column and can be any expression. Null values in the measure column are ignored. 

  * The `delimiter` designates the string that is to separate the measure column values. This clause is optional and defaults to `NULL`. 

If `measure_expr` is of type `RAW`, then the delimiter must be of type `RAW`.
You can achieve this by specifying the delimiter as a character string that
can be implicitly converted to `RAW`, or by explicitly converting the
delimiter to `RAW`, for example, using the `UTL_RAW.CAST_TO_RAW` function.

  * The `order_by_clause` determines the order in which the concatenated values are returned. The function is deterministic only if the `ORDER` `BY` column list achieved unique ordering. 

  * If you specify `order_by_clause`, you must also specify `WITHIN GROUP` and vice versa. These two clauses must be specified together or not at all. 

The `DISTINCT` keyword removes duplicate values from the list.

If the measure column is of type `RAW`, then the return data type is `RAW`.
Otherwise, the return data type is `VARCHAR2`.

The maximum length of the return data type depends on the value of the
`MAX_STRING_SIZE` initialization parameter. If `MAX_STRING_SIZE` `=`
`EXTENDED`, then the maximum length is 32767 bytes for the `VARCHAR2` and
`RAW` data types. If `MAX_STRING_SIZE` `=` `STANDARD`, then the maximum length
is 4000 bytes for the `VARCHAR2` data type and 2000 bytes for the `RAW` data
type. A final delimiter is not included when determining if the return value
fits in the return data type.

See Also:

  * [Extended Data Types](Data-Types.md#GUID-8EFA29E9-E8D8-40A6-A43E-954908C954A4) for more information on the `MAX_STRING_SIZE` initialization parameter 

  * Appendix C in [Oracle Database Globalization Support Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG-GUID-AFCE41ED-775B-4A00-AF38-C436776AE0C5) for the collation derivation rules, which define the collation assigned to the character return value of `LISTAGG`

  * [Database Data Warehousing Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=DWHSG-GUID-EDBADEC3-4DC5-4A3A-85EF-B64C45910B1D) for details. 

listagg_overflow_clause

This clause controls how the function behaves when the return value exceeds
the maximum length of the return data type.

ON OVERFLOW ERROR If you specify this clause, then the function returns an
ORA-01489 error. This is the default.

ON OVERFLOW TRUNCATE If you specify this clause, then the function returns a
truncated list of measure values.

  * The `truncation_indicator` designates the string that is to be appended to the truncated list of measure values. If you omit this clause, then the truncation indicator is an ellipsis (`...`). 

If `measure_expr` is of type `RAW`, then the truncation indicator must be of
type `RAW`. You can achieve this by specifying the truncation indicator as a
character string that can be implicitly converted to `RAW`, or by explicitly
converting the truncation indicator to `RAW`, for example, using the
`UTL_RAW.CAST_TO_RAW` function.

  * If you specify `WITH` `COUNT`, then after the truncation indicator, the database appends the number of truncated values, enclosed in parentheses. In this case, the database truncates enough measure values to allow space in the return value for a final delimiter, the truncation indicator, and 24 characters for the number value enclosed in parentheses. 

  * If you specify `WITHOUT` `COUNT`, then the database omits the number of truncated values from the return value. In this case, the database truncates enough measure values to allow space in the return value for a final delimiter and the truncation indicator. 

If you do not specify `WITH` `COUNT` or `WITHOUT` `COUNT`, then the default is
`WITH` `COUNT`.

Aggregate Examples

The following single-set aggregate example lists all of the employees in
Department 30 in the `hr.employees` table, ordered by hire date and last name:

    
    
    SELECT LISTAGG(last_name, '; ')
             WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY hire_date, last_name) "Emp_list",
           MIN(hire_date) "Earliest"
      FROM employees
      WHERE department_id = 30;
    
    Emp_list                                                     Earliest
    ------------------------------------------------------------ ---------
    Raphaely; Khoo; Tobias; Baida; Himuro; Colmenares            07-DEC-02
    

The following group-set aggregate example lists, for each department ID in the
`hr.employees` table, the employees in that department in order of their hire
date:

    
    
    SELECT department_id "Dept.",
           LISTAGG(last_name, '; ') WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY hire_date) "Employees"
      FROM employees
      GROUP BY department_id
      ORDER BY department_id;
    
    Dept. Employees
    ------ ------------------------------------------------------------
        10 Whalen
        20 Hartstein; Fay
        30 Raphaely; Khoo; Tobias; Baida; Himuro; Colmenares
        40 Mavris
        50 Kaufling; Ladwig; Rajs; Sarchand; Bell; Mallin; Weiss; Davie
           s; Marlow; Bull; Everett; Fripp; Chung; Nayer; Dilly; Bissot
           ; Vollman; Stiles; Atkinson; Taylor; Seo; Fleaur; Matos; Pat
           el; Walsh; Feeney; Dellinger; McCain; Vargas; Gates; Rogers;
            Mikkilineni; Landry; Cabrio; Jones; Olson; OConnell; Sulliv
           an; Mourgos; Gee; Perkins; Grant; Geoni; Philtanker; Markle
        60 Austin; Hunold; Pataballa; Lorentz; Ernst
        70 Baer
    . . .

The following example is identical to the previous example, except it contains
the `ON` `OVERFLOW` `TRUNCATE` clause. For the purpose of this example, assume
that the maximum length of the return value is an artificially small number of
200 bytes. Because the list of employees for department 50 exceeds 200 bytes,
the list is truncated and appended with a final delimiter '`;` ', the
specified truncation indicator '`...`', and the number of truncated values
'`(23)`'.

    
    
    SELECT department_id "Dept.",
           LISTAGG(last_name, '; ' ON OVERFLOW TRUNCATE '...')
                   WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY hire_date) "Employees"
      FROM employees
      GROUP BY department_id
      ORDER BY department_id;
    
    Dept. Employees
    ------ ------------------------------------------------------------
        10 Whalen
        20 Hartstein; Fay
        30 Raphaely; Khoo; Tobias; Baida; Himuro; Colmenares
        40 Mavris
        50 Kaufling; Ladwig; Rajs; Sarchand; Bell; Mallin; Weiss; Davie
           s; Marlow; Bull; Everett; Fripp; Chung; Nayer; Dilly; Bissot
           ; Vollman; Stiles; Atkinson; Taylor; Seo; Fleaur; ... (23)
        70 Baer
    . . .

Analytic Example

The following analytic example shows, for each employee hired earlier than
September 1, 2003, the employee's department, hire date, and all other
employees in that department also hired before September 1, 2003:

    
    
    SELECT department_id "Dept", hire_date "Date", last_name "Name",
           LISTAGG(last_name, '; ') WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY hire_date, last_name)
             OVER (PARTITION BY department_id) as "Emp_list"
      FROM employees
      WHERE hire_date < '01-SEP-2003'
      ORDER BY "Dept", "Date", "Name";
    
     Dept Date      Name            Emp_list
    ----- --------- --------------- ---------------------------------------------
       30 07-DEC-02 Raphaely        Raphaely; Khoo
       30 18-MAY-03 Khoo            Raphaely; Khoo
       40 07-JUN-02 Mavris          Mavris
       50 01-MAY-03 Kaufling        Kaufling; Ladwig
       50 14-JUL-03 Ladwig          Kaufling; Ladwig
       70 07-JUN-02 Baer            Baer
       90 13-JAN-01 De Haan         De Haan; King
       90 17-JUN-03 King            De Haan; King
      100 16-AUG-02 Faviet          Faviet; Greenberg
      100 17-AUG-02 Greenberg       Faviet; Greenberg
      110 07-JUN-02 Gietz           Gietz; Higgins
      110 07-JUN-02 Higgins         Gietz; Higgins


[← Previous](LENGTH.md)

[Next →](LN.md)
