[Previous](Data-Type-Comparison-Rules.md) [Next](Format-Models.md)
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Basic Elements of Oracle SQL](Basic-Elements-of-Oracle-SQL.md)
  3. Literals 

## Literals

The terms literal and constant value are synonymous and refer to a fixed data
value. For example, 'JACK', 'BLUE ISLAND', and '101' are all character
literals; 5001 is a numeric literal. Character literals are enclosed in single
quotation marks so that Oracle can distinguish them from schema object names.

This section contains these topics:

  * [Text Literals](Literals.md#GUID-1824CBAA-6E16-4921-B2A6-112FB02248DA)

  * [Numeric Literals](Literals.md#GUID-F521FBA0-FFED-4079-ABC4-9052218B3FD5)

  * [Datetime Literals](Literals.md#GUID-8F4B3F82-8821-4071-84D6-FBBA21C05AC1)

  * [Interval Literals](Literals.md#GUID-DC8D1DAD-7D04-45EA-9546-82810CD09A1B)

Many SQL statements and functions require you to specify character and numeric
literal values. You can also specify literals as part of expressions and
conditions. You can specify character literals with the '`text`' notation,
national character literals with the `N'text'` notation, and numeric literals
with the `integer`, or `number` notation, depending on the context of the
literal. The syntactic forms of these notations appear in the sections that
follow.

To specify a datetime or interval data type as a literal, you must take into
account any optional precisions included in the data types. Examples of
specifying datetime and interval data types as literals are provided in the
relevant sections of [Data Types](Data-
Types.md#GUID-A3C0D836-BADB-44E5-A5D4-265BA5968483).

### Text Literals

Use the text literal notation to specify values whenever `string` appears in
the syntax of expressions, conditions, SQL functions, and SQL statements in
other parts of this reference. This reference uses the terms text literal,
character literal, and string interchangeably. Text, character, and string
literals are always surrounded by single quotation marks. If the syntax uses
the term `char`, then you can specify either a text literal or another
expression that resolves to character data â for example, the `last_name`
column of the `hr.employees` table. When `char` appears in the syntax, the
single quotation marks are not used.

The syntax of text literals or strings follows:

string::=

![Description of string.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/string.gif)  
[Description of the illustration string.eps](img_text/string.md)

where `N` or `n` specifies the literal using the national character set
(`NCHAR` or `NVARCHAR2` data). By default, text entered using this notation is
translated into the national character set by way of the database character
set when used by the server. To avoid potential loss of data during the text
literal conversion to the database character set, set the environment variable
`ORA_NCHAR_LITERAL_REPLACE` to `TRUE`. Doing so transparently replaces the
`n'` internally and preserves the text literal for SQL processing.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Globalization Support
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG0071) for more information about N-quoted literals

In the top branch of the syntax:

  * `c `is any member of the user's character set. A single quotation mark (') within the literal must be preceded by an escape character. To represent one single quotation mark within a literal, enter two single quotation marks. 

  * ' ' are two single quotation marks that begin and end text literals. 

In the bottom branch of the syntax:

  * `Q` or `q` indicates that the alternative quoting mechanism will be used. This mechanism allows a wide range of delimiters for the text string. 

  * The outermost `'` `'` are two single quotation marks that precede and follow, respectively, the opening and closing `quote_delimiter`. 

  * `c` is any member of the user's character set. You can include quotation marks (") in the text literal made up of `c` characters. You can also include the `quote_delimiter`, as long as it is not immediately followed by a single quotation mark. 

  * `quote_delimiter` is any single- or multibyte character except space, tab, and return. The `quote_delimiter` can be a single quotation mark. However, if the `quote_delimiter` appears in the text literal itself, ensure that it is not immediately followed by a single quotation mark. 

If the opening `quote_delimiter` is one of `[`, `{`, `<`, or `(`, then the
closing `quote_delimiter` must be the corresponding `]`, `}`, `>`, or `)`. In
all other cases, the opening and closing `quote_delimiter` must be the same
character.

Text literals have properties of both the `CHAR` and `VARCHAR2` data types:

  * Within expressions and conditions, Oracle treats text literals as though they have the data type `CHAR` by comparing them using blank-padded comparison semantics. 

  * A text literal can have a maximum length of 4000 bytes if the initialization parameter `MAX_STRING_SIZE` `=` `STANDARD`, and 32767 bytes if `MAX_STRING_SIZE` `=` `EXTENDED`. See [Extended Data Types](Data-Types.md#GUID-8EFA29E9-E8D8-40A6-A43E-954908C954A4) for more information. 

Here are some valid text literals:

    
    
    'Hello'
    'ORACLE.dbs'
    'Jackie''s raincoat'
    '09-MAR-98'
    N'nchar literal'
    

Here are some valid text literals using the alternative quoting mechanism:

    
    
    q'!name LIKE '%DBMS_%%'!'
    q'<'So,' she said, 'It's finished.'>'
    q'{SELECT * FROM employees WHERE last_name = 'Smith';}'
    nq'Ã¯ Å¸1234 Ã¯'
    q'"name like '['"'

See Also:

[Blank-Padded and Nonpadded Comparison Semantics](Data-Type-Comparison-
Rules.md#GUID-A114F1F4-A08D-4107-B679-323DC7FEA31C__BABJBDGB)

### Numeric Literals

Use numeric literal notation to specify fixed and floating-point numbers.

#### Integer Literals

You must use the integer notation to specify an integer whenever `integer`
appears in expressions, conditions, SQL functions, and SQL statements
described in other parts of this reference.

The syntax of `integer` follows:

integer::=

![Description of integer.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/integer.gif)  
[Description of the illustration integer.eps](img_text/integer.md)

where `digit` is one of 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.

An integer can store a maximum of 38 digits of precision.

Here are some valid integers:

    
    
    7
    +255

#### NUMBER and Floating-Point Literals

You must use the number or floating-point notation to specify values whenever
`number` or `n` appears in expressions, conditions, SQL functions, and SQL
statements in other parts of this reference.

The syntax of `number` follows:

number::=

![Description of number.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/number.gif)  
[Description of the illustration number.eps](img_text/number.md)

where

  * \+ or - indicates a positive or negative value. If you omit the sign, then a positive value is the default.

  * `digit` is one of 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9. 

  * e or E indicates that the number is specified in scientific notation. The digits after the E specify the exponent. The exponent can range from -130 to 125.

  * f or F indicates that the number is a 32-bit binary floating point number of type `BINARY_FLOAT`. 

  * d or D indicates that the number is a 64-bit binary floating point number of type `BINARY_DOUBLE`. 

If you omit f or F and d or D, then the number is of type `NUMBER`.

The suffixes f (F) and d (D) are supported only in floating-point number
literals, not in character strings that are to be converted to `NUMBER`. For
example, if Oracle is expecting a `NUMBER` and it encounters the string `'9'`,
then it converts the string to the number 9. However, if Oracle encounters the
string `'9f'`, then conversion fails and an error is returned.

A number of type `NUMBER` can store a maximum of 38 digits of precision. If
the literal requires more precision than provided by `NUMBER`, `BINARY_FLOAT`,
or `BINARY_DOUBLE`, then Oracle truncates the value. If the range of the
literal exceeds the range supported by `NUMBER`, `BINARY_FLOAT`, or
`BINARY_DOUBLE`, then Oracle raises an error.

Numeric literals are SQL syntax elements, which are not sensitive to NLS
settings. The decimal separator character in numeric literals is always the
period (.). However, if a text literal is specified where a numeric value is
expected, then the text literal is implicitly converted to a number in an NLS-
sensitive way. The decimal separator contained in the text literal must be the
one established with the initialization parameter `NLS_NUMERIC_CHARACTERS`.
Oracle recommends that you use numeric literals in SQL scripts to make them
work independently of the NLS environment.

The following examples illustrate the behavior of decimal separators in
numeric literals and text literals. These examples assume that you have
established the comma (,) as the NLS decimal separator for the current session
with the following statement:

    
    
    ALTER SESSION SET NLS_NUMERIC_CHARACTERS=',.';

The previous statement also establishes the period (.) as the NLS group
separator, but that is irrelevant for these examples.

This example uses the required decimal separator (.) in the numeric literal
`1.23` and the established NLS decimal separator (,) in the text literal
'`2,34`'. The text literal is converted to the numeric value 2.34, and the
output is displayed using commas for the decimal separators.

    
    
    SELECT 2 * 1.23, 3 * '2,34' FROM DUAL;
    
        2*1.23   3*'2,34'
    ---------- ----------
          2,46       7,02

The next example shows that a comma is not treated as part of a numeric
literal. Rather, the comma is treated as the delimiter in a list of two
numeric expressions: `2*1` and `23`.

    
    
    SELECT 2 * 1,23 FROM DUAL;
    
           2*1         23
    ---------- ----------
             2         23

The next example shows that the decimal separator in a text literal must match
the NLS decimal separator in order for implicit text-to-number conversion to
succeed. The following statement fails because the decimal separator (.) does
not match the established NLS decimal separator (,):

    
    
    SELECT 3 * '2.34' FROM DUAL;
               *
    ERROR at line 1:
    ORA-01722: invalid number

See Also:

[ALTER SESSION](ALTER-SESSION.md#GUID-27186B28-7EFC-4998-B1ED-2B905CC0211B)
and [Oracle Database
Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN10126)

Here are some valid `NUMBER` literals:

    
    
    25
    +6.34
    0.5
    25e-03
    -1
    

Here are some valid floating-point number literals:

    
    
    25f
    +6.34F
    0.5d
    -1D
    

You can also use the following supplied floating-point literals in situations
where a value cannot be expressed as a numeric literal:

Table 2-12 Floating-Point Literals

Literal | Meaning | Example  
---|---|---  
`binary_float_nan` |  A value of type `BINARY_FLOAT` for which the condition `IS` `NAN` is true  | 
    
    
    SELECT COUNT(*) 
      FROM employees 
      WHERE TO_BINARY_FLOAT(commission_pct)
         != BINARY_FLOAT_NAN;  
  
`binary_float_infinity` |  Single-precision positive infinity | 
    
    
    SELECT COUNT(*) 
      FROM employees 
      WHERE salary < BINARY_FLOAT_INFINITY;  
  
`binary_double_nan` |  A value of type `BINARY_DOUBLE` for which the condition `IS` `NAN` is true  | 
    
    
    SELECT COUNT(*) 
      FROM employees 
      WHERE TO_BINARY_FLOAT(commission_pct)
         != BINARY_FLOAT_NAN;  
  
`binary_double_infinity` |  Double-precision positive infinity | 
    
    
    SELECT COUNT(*) 
      FROM employees 
      WHERE salary < BINARY_DOUBLE_INFINITY;  
  
### Datetime Literals

Oracle Database supports four datetime data types: `DATE`, `TIMESTAMP`,
`TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE`, and `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `LOCAL` `TIME`
`ZONE`.

Date Literals

You can specify a `DATE` value as a string literal, or you can convert a
character or numeric value to a date value with the `TO_DATE` function. `DATE`
literals are the only case in which Oracle Database accepts a `TO_DATE`
expression in place of a string literal.

To specify a `DATE` value as a literal, you must use the Gregorian calendar.
You can specify an ANSI literal, as shown in this example:

    
    
    DATE '1998-12-25'
    

The ANSI date literal contains no time portion, and must be specified in the
format '`YYYY-MM-DD`'. Alternatively you can specify an Oracle date value, as
in the following example:

    
    
    TO_DATE('98-DEC-25 17:30','YY-MON-DD HH24:MI')
    

The default date format for an Oracle `DATE` value is specified by the
initialization parameter `NLS_DATE_FORMAT`. This example date format includes
a two-digit number for the day of the month, an abbreviation of the month
name, the last two digits of the year, and a 24-hour time designation.

Oracle automatically converts character values that are in the default date
format into date values when they are used in date expressions.

If you specify a date value without a time component, then the default time is
midnight (00:00:00 or 12:00:00 for 24-hour and 12-hour clock time,
respectively). If you specify a date value without a date, then the default
date is the first day of the current month.

Oracle `DATE` columns always contain both the date and time fields. Therefore,
if you query a `DATE` column, then you must either specify the time field in
your query or ensure that the time fields in the `DATE` column are set to
midnight. Otherwise, Oracle may not return the query results you expect. You
can use the `TRUNC` date function to set the time field to midnight, or you
can include a greater-than or less-than condition in the query instead of an
equality or inequality condition.

Here are some examples that assume a table `my_table` with a number column
`row_num` and a `DATE` column `datecol`:

    
    
    INSERT INTO my_table VALUES (1, SYSDATE);
    INSERT INTO my_table VALUES (2, TRUNC(SYSDATE));
    
    SELECT *
      FROM my_table;
    
       ROW_NUM DATECOL
    ---------- ---------
             1 03-OCT-02
             2 03-OCT-02
    
    SELECT *
      FROM my_table
      WHERE datecol > TO_DATE('02-OCT-02', 'DD-MON-YY');
    
       ROW_NUM DATECOL
    ---------- ---------
             1 03-OCT-02
             2 03-OCT-02
    
    SELECT *
      FROM my_table
      WHERE datecol = TO_DATE('03-OCT-02','DD-MON-YY');
    
       ROW_NUM DATECOL
    ---------- ---------
             2 03-OCT-02
    

If you know that the time fields of your `DATE` column are set to midnight,
then you can query your `DATE` column as shown in the immediately preceding
example, or by using the `DATE` literal:

    
    
    SELECT *
      FROM my_table
      WHERE datecol = DATE '2002-10-03';
    
    
       ROW_NUM DATECOL
    ---------- ---------
             2 03-OCT-02
    

However, if the `DATE` column contains values other than midnight, then you
must filter out the time fields in the query to get the correct result. For
example:

    
    
    SELECT *
      FROM my_table
      WHERE TRUNC(datecol) = DATE '2002-10-03';
    
    
       ROW_NUM DATECOL
    ---------- ---------
             1 03-OCT-02
             2 03-OCT-02
    

Oracle applies the `TRUNC` function to each row in the query, so performance
is better if you ensure the midnight value of the time fields in your data. To
ensure that the time fields are set to midnight, use one of the following
methods during inserts and updates:

  * Use the `TO_DATE` function to mask out the time fields: 
    
        INSERT INTO my_table
      VALUES (3, TO_DATE('3-OCT-2002','DD-MON-YYYY'));
    

  * Use the `DATE` literal: 
    
        INSERT INTO my_table
      VALUES (4, '03-OCT-02');
    

  * Use the `TRUNC` function: 
    
        INSERT INTO my_table
      VALUES (5, TRUNC(SYSDATE));
    

The date function `SYSDATE` returns the current system date and time. The
function `CURRENT_DATE` returns the current session date. For information on
`SYSDATE`, the `TO_*` datetime functions, and the default date format, see
[Datetime Functions](Single-Row-Functions.md#GUID-5652DBC2-41C7-4F07-BEDD-
DAF620E35F3C).

TIMESTAMP Literals

The `TIMESTAMP` data type stores year, month, day, hour, minute, and second,
and fractional second values. When you specify `TIMESTAMP` as a literal, the
`fractional_seconds_precision` value can be any number of digits up to 9, as
follows:

    
    
    TIMESTAMP '1997-01-31 09:26:50.124'

TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE Literals

The `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE` data type is a variant of `TIMESTAMP`
that includes a time zone region name or time zone offset. When you specify
`TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE` as a literal, the
`fractional_seconds_precision` value can be any number of digits up to 9. For
example:

    
    
    TIMESTAMP '1997-01-31 09:26:56.66 +02:00'
    

Two `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE` values are considered identical if they
represent the same instant in UTC, regardless of the `TIME` `ZONE` offsets
stored in the data. For example,

    
    
    TIMESTAMP '1999-04-15 8:00:00 -8:00'
    

is the same as

    
    
    TIMESTAMP '1999-04-15 11:00:00 -5:00'
    

8:00 a.m. Pacific Standard Time is the same as 11:00 a.m. Eastern Standard
Time.

You can replace the UTC offset with the `TZR` (time zone region name) format
element. For example, the following example has the same value as the
preceding example:

    
    
    TIMESTAMP '1999-04-15 8:00:00 US/Pacific'
    

To eliminate the ambiguity of boundary cases when the daylight saving time
switches, use both the `TZR` and a corresponding `TZD` format element. The
following example ensures that the preceding example will return a daylight
saving time value:

    
    
    TIMESTAMP '1999-10-29 01:30:00 US/Pacific PDT'
    

You can also express the time zone offset using a datetime expression:

    
    
    SELECT TIMESTAMP '2009-10-29 01:30:00' AT TIME ZONE 'US/Pacific'
      FROM DUAL;
    

See Also:

[Datetime Expressions](Datetime-
Expressions.md#GUID-F72A753A-98A4-4EBD-84E9-C014CE058384) for more
information

If you do not add the `TZD` format element, and the datetime value is
ambiguous, then Oracle returns an error if you have the
`ERROR_ON_OVERLAP_TIME` session parameter set to `TRUE`. If that parameter is
set to `FALSE`, then Oracle interprets the ambiguous datetime as standard time
in the specified region.

TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE Literals

The `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `LOCAL` `TIME` `ZONE` data type differs from
`TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE` in that data stored in the database is
normalized to the database time zone. The time zone offset is not stored as
part of the column data. There is no literal for `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `LOCAL`
`TIME` `ZONE`. Rather, you represent values of this data type using any of the
other valid datetime literals. The table that follows shows some of the
formats you can use to insert a value into a `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `LOCAL` `TIME`
`ZONE` column, along with the corresponding value returned by a query.

Table 2-13 TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE Literals

Value Specified in INSERT Statement | Value Returned by Query  
---|---  
`'19-FEB-2004'` |  19-FEB-2004.00.00.000000 AM  
`SYSTIMESTAMP` |  19-FEB-04 02.54.36.497659 PM  
`TO_TIMESTAMP('19-FEB-2004', 'DD-MON-YYYY')` |  19-FEB-04 12.00.00.000000 AM  
`SYSDATE` |  19-FEB-04 02.55.29.000000 PM  
`TO_DATE('19-FEB-2004', 'DD-MON-YYYY')` |  19-FEB-04 12.00.00.000000 AM  
`TIMESTAMP'2004-02-19 8:00:00 US/Pacific'` |  19-FEB-04 08.00.00.000000 AM  
  
Notice that if the value specified does not include a time component (either
explicitly or implicitly), then the value returned defaults to midnight.

### Interval Literals

An interval literal specifies a period of time. You can specify these
differences in terms of years and months, or in terms of days, hours, minutes,
and seconds. Oracle Database supports two types of interval literals, `YEAR`
`TO` `MONTH` and `DAY` `TO` `SECOND`. Each type contains a leading field and
may contain a trailing field. The leading field defines the basic unit of date
or time being measured. The trailing field defines the smallest increment of
the basic unit being considered. For example, a `YEAR` `TO` `MONTH` interval
considers an interval of years to the nearest month. A `DAY` `TO` `MINUTE`
interval considers an interval of days to the nearest minute.

If you have date data in numeric form, then you can use the `NUMTOYMINTERVAL`
or `NUMTODSINTERVAL` conversion function to convert the numeric data into
interval values.

Interval literals are used primarily with analytic functions.

See Also:

[Analytic Functions](Analytic-
Functions.md#GUID-527832F7-63C0-4445-8C16-307FA5084056),
[NUMTODSINTERVAL](NUMTODSINTERVAL.md#GUID-5A7392A8-7976-4465-8839-A65EFF1A80B6),
and
[NUMTOYMINTERVAL](NUMTOYMINTERVAL.md#GUID-B98B21AA-44F7-4A9D-A646-6775A1D5F46D)

#### INTERVAL YEAR TO MONTH

Specify `YEAR` `TO` `MONTH` interval literals using the following syntax:

interval_year_to_month::=

![Description of interval_year_to_month.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/interval_year_to_month.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
interval_year_to_month.eps](img_text/interval_year_to_month.md)

where

  * `'integer [-integer]'` specifies integer values for the leading and optional trailing field of the literal. If the leading field is `YEAR` and the trailing field is `MONTH`, then the range of integer values for the month field is 0 to 11. 

  * `precision` is the maximum number of digits in the leading field. The valid range of the leading field precision is 0 to 9 and its default value is 2. 

Restriction on the Leading Field

If you specify a trailing field, then it must be less significant than the
leading field. For example, `INTERVAL` '`0-1`' `MONTH` `TO` `YEAR` is not
valid.

The following `INTERVAL` `YEAR` `TO` `MONTH` literal indicates an interval of
123 years, 2 months:

    
    
    INTERVAL '123-2' YEAR(3) TO MONTH
    

Examples of the other forms of the literal follow, including some abbreviated
versions:

Table 2-14 Forms of INTERVAL YEAR TO MONTH Literals

Form of Interval Literal | Interpretation  
---|---  
`INTERVAL '123-2' YEAR(3) TO MONTH` |  An interval of 123 years, 2 months. You must specify the leading field precision if it is greater than the default of 2 digits.  
`INTERVAL '123' YEAR(3)` |  An interval of 123 years 0 months.  
`INTERVAL '300' MONTH(3)` |  An interval of 300 months.  
`INTERVAL '4' YEAR` |  Maps to `INTERVAL '4-0' YEAR TO MONTH` and indicates 4 years.   
`INTERVAL '50' MONTH` |  Maps to `INTERVAL '4-2' YEAR TO MONTH` and indicates 50 months or 4 years 2 months.   
`INTERVAL '123' YEAR` |  Returns an error, because the default precision is 2, and '123' has 3 digits.  
  
You can add or subtract one `INTERVAL` `YEAR` `TO` `MONTH` literal to or from
another to yield another `INTERVAL` `YEAR` `TO` `MONTH` literal. For example:

    
    
    INTERVAL '5-3' YEAR TO MONTH + INTERVAL'20' MONTH = 
    INTERVAL '6-11' YEAR TO MONTH

#### INTERVAL DAY TO SECOND

Specify `DAY` `TO` `SECOND` interval literals using the following syntax:

interval_day_to_second::=

![Description of interval_day_to_second.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/interval_day_to_second.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
interval_day_to_second.eps](img_text/interval_day_to_second.md)

where

  * `integer` specifies the number of days. If this value contains more digits than the number specified by the leading precision, then Oracle returns an error. 

  * `time_expr` specifies a time in the format `HH``[`:`MI``[`:`SS``[`.`n``]]]` or `MI``[`:`SS``[`.`n``]]` or `SS``[`.`n``]`, where `n` specifies the fractional part of a second. If `n` contains more digits than the number specified by `fractional_seconds_precision`, then `n` is rounded to the number of digits specified by the `fractional_seconds_precision` value. You can specify `time_expr` following an integer and a space only if the leading field is `DAY`. 

  * `leading_precision` is the number of digits in the leading field. Accepted values are 0 to 9. The default is 2. 

  * `fractional_seconds_precision` is the number of digits in the fractional part of the `SECOND` datetime field. Accepted values are 1 to 9. The default is 6. 

Restriction on the Leading Field:

If you specify a trailing field, then it must be less significant than the
leading field. For example, `INTERVAL` `MINUTE` `TO` `DAY` is not valid. As a
result of this restriction, if `SECOND` is the leading field, the interval
literal cannot have any trailing field.

The valid range of values for the trailing field are as follows:

  * `HOUR`: 0 to 23 

  * `MINUTE`: 0 to 59 

  * `SECOND`: 0 to 59.999999999 

Examples of the various forms of `INTERVAL` `DAY` `TO` `SECOND` literals
follow, including some abbreviated versions:

Table 2-15 Forms of INTERVAL DAY TO SECOND Literals

Form of Interval Literal | Interpretation  
---|---  
`INTERVAL '4 5:12:10.222' DAY TO SECOND(3)` |  4 days, 5 hours, 12 minutes, 10 seconds, and 222 thousandths of a second.  
`INTERVAL '4 5:12' DAY TO MINUTE` |  4 days, 5 hours and 12 minutes.  
`INTERVAL '400 5' DAY(3) TO HOUR` |  400 days 5 hours.  
`INTERVAL '400' DAY(3) ` |  400 days.  
`INTERVAL '11:12:10.2222222' HOUR TO SECOND(7)` |  11 hours, 12 minutes, and 10.2222222 seconds.  
`INTERVAL '11:20' HOUR TO MINUTE` |  11 hours and 20 minutes.  
`INTERVAL '10' HOUR` |  10 hours.  
`INTERVAL '10:22' MINUTE TO SECOND` |  10 minutes 22 seconds.  
`INTERVAL '10' MINUTE` |  10 minutes.  
`INTERVAL '4' DAY` |  4 days.  
`INTERVAL '25' HOUR ` |  25 hours.  
`INTERVAL '40' MINUTE` |  40 minutes.  
`INTERVAL '120' HOUR(3)` |  120 hours.  
`INTERVAL '30.12345' SECOND(2,4) ` |  30.1235 seconds. The fractional second '12345' is rounded to '1235' because the precision is 4.  
  
You can add or subtract one `DAY` `TO` `SECOND` interval literal from another
`DAY` `TO` `SECOND` literal. For example.

    
    
    INTERVAL'20' DAY - INTERVAL'240' HOUR = INTERVAL'10-0' DAY TO SECOND


[← Previous](Literals.md)

[Next →](Format-Models.md)
