[Previous](SQL-Statements-MERGE-to-UPDATE.md) [Next](NOAUDIT-Traditional-
Auditing.md) JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: MERGE to UPDATE](SQL-Statements-MERGE-to-UPDATE.md)
  3. MERGE 

## MERGE

Purpose

Use the `MERGE` statement to select rows from one or more sources for update
or insertion into a table or view. You can specify conditions to determine
whether to update or insert into the target table or view.

This statement is a convenient way to combine multiple operations. It lets you
avoid multiple `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` DML statements.

`MERGE` is a deterministic statement. You cannot update the same row of the
target table multiple times in the same `MERGE` statement.

Note:

In previous releases of Oracle Database, when you created an Oracle Virtual
Private Database policy on an application that included the `MERGE` `INTO`
statement, the `MERGE` `INTO` statement would be prevented with an `ORA-28132:
Merge into syntax does not support security policies` error, due to the
presence of the Virtual Private Database policy. Beginning with Oracle
Database 11g Release 2 (11.2.0.2), you can create policies on applications
that include `MERGE` `INTO` operations. To do so, in the
`DBMS_RLS`.`ADD_POLICY` `statement_types` parameter, include the `INSERT`,
`UPDATE`, and `DELETE` statements, or just omit the `statement_types`
parameter altogether. Refer to [Oracle Database Security
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG249) for more information on enforcing policies on
specific SQL statement types.

Prerequisites

You must have the `INSERT` and `UPDATE` object privileges on the target table
and the `SELECT` object privilege on the source objects. To specify the
`DELETE` clause of the `merge_update_clause`, you must also have the `DELETE`
object privilege on the target table or view.

Syntax

merge::=

![Description of merge.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/merge.gif)  
[Description of the illustration merge.eps](img_text/merge.md)

Note:

You must specify at least one of the clauses `merge_update_clause` or
`merge_insert_clause`.

([values_clause::=](MERGE.md#GUID-5692CCB7-24D9-4C0E-81A7-A22436DC968F__SECTION_S4X_SPJ_T1C),
[merge_update_clause::=](MERGE.md#GUID-5692CCB7-24D9-4C0E-81A7-A22436DC968F__BGBBBIDF),
[merge_insert_clause::=](MERGE.md#GUID-5692CCB7-24D9-4C0E-81A7-A22436DC968F__BGBGIICE),
[error_logging_clause::=](MERGE.md#GUID-5692CCB7-24D9-4C0E-81A7-A22436DC968F__BGBDABCJ)

values_clause::=

![Description of values_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/values_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
values_clause.eps](img_text/values_clause.md)

merge_update_clause::=

![Description of merge_update_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/merge_update_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
merge_update_clause.eps](img_text/merge_update_clause.md)

merge_insert_clause::=

![Description of merge_insert_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/merge_insert_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
merge_insert_clause.eps](img_text/merge_insert_clause.md)

where_clause::=

![Description of where_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/where_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration where_clause.eps](img_text/where_clause.md)

error_logging_clause::=

![Description of error_logging_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/error_logging_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
error_logging_clause.eps](img_text/error_logging_clause.md)

Semantics

INTO Clause

Use the `INTO` clause to specify the target table or view you are updating or
inserting into. In order to merge data into a view, the view must be
updatable. Refer to "[Notes on Updatable Views](CREATE-
VIEW.md#GUID-61D2D2B4-DACC-4C7C-89EB-7E50D9594D30__CEGCADFA)" for more
information.

Restriction on Target Views

You cannot specify a target view on which an `INSTEAD` `OF` trigger has been
defined.

USING Clause

Use the `USING` clause to specify the source you are updating or inserting
from.

values_clause

For semantics of the `values_clause` please see the `values_clause` of the
`SELECT` statement [values_clause](SELECT.md#GUID-
CFA006CA-6FF1-4972-821E-6996142A51C6__SECTION_UMB_QGC_FWB) .

ON Clause

Use the `ON` clause to specify the condition upon which the `MERGE` operation
either updates or inserts. For each row in the target table for which the
search condition is true, Oracle Database updates the row with corresponding
data from the source . If the condition is not true for any rows, then the
database inserts into the target table based on the corresponding source row.

merge_update_clause

The `merge_update_clause` specifies the new column values of the target table
or view. Oracle performs this update if the condition of the `ON` clause is
true. If the update clause is executed, then all update triggers defined on
the target table are activated.

Specify the `where_clause` if you want the database to execute the update
operation only if the specified condition is true. The condition can refer to
either the data source or the target table. If the condition is not true, then
the database skips the update operation when merging the row into the table.

Specify the `DELETE` `where_clause` to clean up data in a table while
populating or updating it. The only rows affected by this clause are those
rows in the destination table that are updated by the merge operation. The
`DELETE` `WHERE` condition evaluates the updated value, not the original value
that was evaluated by the `UPDATE` `SET` ... `WHERE` condition. If a row of
the destination table meets the `DELETE` condition but is not included in the
join defined by the `ON` clause, then it is not deleted. Any delete triggers
defined on the target table will be activated for each row deletion.

You can specify this clause by itself or with the `merge_insert_clause`. If
you specify both, then they can be in either order.

Restrictions on the merge_update_clause

This clause is subject to the following restrictions:

  * You cannot update a column that is referenced in the `ON` `condition` clause. 

  * You cannot specify `DEFAULT` when updating a view. 

merge_insert_clause

The `merge_insert_clause` specifies values to insert into the column of the
target table if the condition of the `ON` clause is false. If the insert
clause is executed, then all insert triggers defined on the target table are
activated. If you omit the column list after the `INSERT` keyword, then the
number of columns in the target table must match the number of values in the
`VALUES` clause.

To insert all of the source rows into the table, you can use a constant filter
predicate in the `ON` clause condition. An example of a constant filter
predicate is `ON` (`0=1`). Oracle Database recognizes such a predicate and
makes an unconditional insert of all source rows into the table. This approach
is different from omitting the `merge_update_clause`. In that case, the
database still must perform a join. With constant filter predicate, no join is
performed.

Specify the `where_clause` if you want Oracle Database to execute the insert
operation only if the specified condition is true. The condition can refer
only to the data source columns. Oracle Database skips the insert operation
for all rows for which the condition is not true.

You can specify the `merge_insert_clause` by itself or with the
`merge_update_clause`. If you specify both, then they can be in either order.

Restriction on the merge_insert_clause

You cannot specify `DEFAULT` when inserting into a view.

error_logging_clause

The error_logging_clause has the same behavior in a `MERGE` statement as in an
`INSERT` statement. Refer to the `INSERT` statement
[error_logging_clause](INSERT.md#GUID-903F8043-0254-4EE9-ACC1-CB8AC0AF3423__BGBEIACB)
for more information.

See Also:

"[Inserting Into a Table with Error Logging:
Example](INSERT.md#GUID-903F8043-0254-4EE9-ACC1-CB8AC0AF3423__BCEGDJDJ)"

Examples

Merging into a Table: Example

The following example uses the `bonuses` table in the sample schema `oe` with
a default bonus of 100. It then inserts into the `bonuses` table all employees
who made sales, based on the `sales_rep_id` column of the `oe.orders` table.
Finally, the human resources manager decides that employees with a salary of
$8000 or less should receive a bonus. Those who have not made sales get a
bonus of 1% of their salary. Those who already made sales get an increase in
their bonus equal to 1% of their salary. The `MERGE` statement implements
these changes in one step:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE bonuses (employee_id NUMBER, bonus NUMBER DEFAULT 100);
    INSERT INTO bonuses(employee_id)
       (SELECT e.employee_id FROM hr.employees e, oe.orders o
       WHERE e.employee_id = o.sales_rep_id
       GROUP BY e.employee_id); 
    
    SELECT * FROM bonuses ORDER BY employee_id;
    
    EMPLOYEE_ID      BONUS
    ----------- ----------
            153        100
            154        100
            155        100
            156        100
            158        100
            159        100
            160        100
            161        100
            163        100
    
    MERGE INTO bonuses D
       USING (SELECT employee_id, salary, department_id FROM hr.employees
       WHERE department_id = 80) S
       ON (D.employee_id = S.employee_id)
       WHEN MATCHED THEN UPDATE SET D.bonus = D.bonus + S.salary*.01
         DELETE WHERE (S.salary > 8000)
       WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN INSERT (D.employee_id, D.bonus)
         VALUES (S.employee_id, S.salary*.01)
         WHERE (S.salary <= 8000);
    
    SELECT * FROM bonuses ORDER BY employee_id;
    
    EMPLOYEE_ID      BONUS
    ----------- ----------
            153        180
            154        175
            155        170
            159        180
            160        175
            161        170
            164         72
            165         68
            166         64
            167         62
            171         74
            172         73
            173         61
            179         62

Conditional Insert and Update: Example

The following example conditionally inserts and updates table data by using
the `MERGE` statement.

The following statements create two tables named `people_source` and
`people_target` and populate them with names:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE people_source ( 
      person_id  INTEGER NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY, 
      first_name VARCHAR2(20) NOT NULL, 
      last_name  VARCHAR2(20) NOT NULL, 
      title      VARCHAR2(10) NOT NULL 
    );
    
    CREATE TABLE people_target ( 
      person_id  INTEGER NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY, 
      first_name VARCHAR2(20) NOT NULL, 
      last_name  VARCHAR2(20) NOT NULL, 
      title      VARCHAR2(10) NOT NULL 
    );
    
    INSERT INTO people_target VALUES (1, 'John', 'Smith', 'Mr');
    INSERT INTO people_target VALUES (2, 'alice', 'jones', 'Mrs');
    INSERT INTO people_source VALUES (2, 'Alice', 'Jones', 'Mrs.');
    INSERT INTO people_source VALUES (3, 'Jane', 'Doe', 'Miss');
    INSERT INTO people_source VALUES (4, 'Dave', 'Brown', 'Mr');
    
    COMMIT;

The following statement compares the contents of `people_target` and
`people_source` by using the `person_id` column. The values in the
`people_target` table are updated when there is a match in the `people_source`
table:

    
    
    MERGE INTO people_target pt 
    USING people_source ps 
    ON    (pt.person_id = ps.person_id) 
    WHEN MATCHED THEN UPDATE 
      SET pt.first_name = ps.first_name, 
          pt.last_name = ps.last_name, 
          pt.title = ps.title;

The following statements display the contents of the `people_target` table and
perform a rollback:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM people_target;
    
    PERSON_ID  FIRST_NAME	     LAST_NAME	     TITLE
    ---------- -------------------- -------------------- ----------
    	 1  John 		    Smith		   Mr
    	 2  Alice		    Jones		   Mrs.
    
    ROLLBACK;

This statement compares the contents of the `people_target` and
`people_source` tables by using the `person_id` column. The values in the
`people_target` table are updated only when there is no match in the
`people_source` table:

    
    
    MERGE INTO people_target pt 
    USING people_source ps 
    ON    (pt.person_id = ps.person_id) 
    WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN INSERT 
      (pt.person_id, pt.first_name, pt.last_name, pt.title) 
      VALUES (ps.person_id, ps.first_name, ps.last_name, ps.title);

The following statements display the contents of the `people_target` table and
perform a rollback:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM people_target;
    
    PERSON_ID  FIRST_NAME	     LAST_NAME	     TITLE
    ---------- -------------------- -------------------- ----------
    	 1  John 		   Smith		    Mr
    	 2  alice		   jones		    Mrs
    	 3  Jane 		   Doe		      Miss
    	 4  Dave 		   Brown		    Mr
    
    ROLLBACK;

The following statement compares the contents of the `people_target` and
`people_source` tables by using the `person_id` column and conditionally
inserts and updates data in the `people_target` table. For each matching row
in the `people_source` table, the values in the `people_target` table are
updated by using the values from the `people_source` table. Any unmatched rows
from the `people_source` table are added to the `people_target` table:

    
    
    MERGE INTO people_target pt 
    USING people_source ps 
    ON    (pt.person_id = ps.person_id) 
    WHEN MATCHED THEN UPDATE 
      SET pt.first_name = ps.first_name, 
          pt.last_name = ps.last_name, 
          pt.title = ps.title 
    WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN INSERT 
      (pt.person_id, pt.first_name, pt.last_name, pt.title) 
      VALUES (ps.person_id, ps.first_name, ps.last_name, ps.title);

The following statements display the contents of the `people_target` table and
perform a rollback:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM people_target;
    
    PERSON_ID  FIRST_NAME	LAST_NAME	     TITLE
    ---------- -------------   ------------------ ----------
    	 1  John 		Smith		 Mr
    	 2  Alice		Jones		 Mrs.
    	 3  Jane 		Doe		   Miss
    	 4  Dave 		Brown		 Mr
    
    ROLLBACK;

The following statement compares the `people_target` and `people_source`
tables by using the `person_id` column. When the `person_id` matches, the
corresponding rows in the `people_target` table are updated by using values
from the `people_source` table. The `DELETE` clause removes all the values in
`people_target` where `title` is âMrs.â. When the `person_id` does not
match, the rows from the `people_source` table are added to the
`people_target` table. The `WHERE` clause ensures that only values that have
`title` as âMrâ are added to the `people_target` table:

    
    
    MERGE INTO people_target pt 
    USING people_source ps 
    ON    (pt.person_id = ps.person_id) 
    WHEN MATCHED THEN UPDATE 
      SET pt.first_name = ps.first_name, 
          pt.last_name = ps.last_name, 
          pt.title = ps.title 
      DELETE where pt.title  = 'Mrs.' 
    WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN INSERT 
      (pt.person_id, pt.first_name, pt.last_name, pt.title) 
      VALUES (ps.person_id, ps.first_name, ps.last_name, ps.title) 
      WHERE ps.title = 'Mr';

The following statements display the contents of the `people_target` table and
perform a rollback:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM people_target;
    
    PERSON_ID   FIRST_NAME		LAST_NAME	     TITLE
    ---------- -------------------- -------------------- ----------
    	 1   John 		     Smith		     Mr
    	 4   Dave 		     Brown		     Mr
    
    ROLLBACK;

Dealing with Inputs from an Application

Usually applications have to check for the existence of a row first in order
to decide whether to `INSERT` a new row, or `UPDATE` an already existing one.
The `MERGE` statement eliminates the need for such a check by allowing the use
of bind variables inside the `USING` statement as a source.

The following statements demonstrate the use of bind variables to insert a new
row into the `people_target` table:

    
    
    var person_id  NUMBER;
    var first_name VARCHAR2(20);
    var last_name  VARCHAR2(20);
    var title      VARCHAR2(10);
    
    exec :person_id := 3;
    exec :first_name := 'Gerald';
    exec :last_name := 'Walker';
    exec :title := 'Mr';
    
    MERGE INTO people_target 
      ON (person_id = :person_id)
    WHEN MATCHED THEN UPDATE
    SET first_name = :first_name,
        last_name = :last_name,
        title = :title
    WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN INSERT
        (person_id, first_name, last_name, title)
        VALUES (:person_id, :first_name, :last_name, :title);
    

The following statements display the contents of the `people_target` table and
perform a rollback:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM people_target;
    
     PERSON_ID FIRST_NAME		LAST_NAME	     TITLE
    ---------- -------------------- -------------------- ----------
    	 1   John                  Smith		     Mr
    	 2   alice                 jones		     Mrs
    	 3   Gerald                Walker		    Mr
    
    ROLLBACK;

The following statements demonstrate the use of bind variables to update an
already existing row in the `people_target`. Note that the `MERGE` statement
is identical to the one just used to insert a new row:

    
    
    var person_id  NUMBER;
    var first_name VARCHAR2(20);
    var last_name  VARCHAR2(20);
    var title      VARCHAR2(10);
    
    exec :person_id := 2;
    exec :first_name := 'Alice';
    exec :last_name := 'Jones';
    exec :title := 'Mrs';
    
    MERGE INTO people_target 
       ON (person_id = :person_id)
    WHEN MATCHED THEN UPDATE
    SET first_name = :first_name,
        last_name = :last_name,
        title = :title
    WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN INSERT
        (person_id, first_name, last_name, title)
        VALUES (:person_id, :first_name, :last_name, :title);
    

The following statements display the contents of the `people_target` table and
perform a rollback:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM people_target;
    
    PERSON_ID FIRST_NAME		LAST_NAME	     TITLE
    ---------- -------------------- -------------------- ----------
    	 1   John                 Smith		     Mr
    	 2   Alice                Jones		     Mrs
    
    ROLLBACK;
    


[← Previous](SQL-Statements-MERGE-to-UPDATE.md)

[Next →](NOAUDIT-Traditional-Auditing.md)
