[Previous](Model-Conditions.md) [Next](Pattern-matching-Conditions.md)
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Conditions](Conditions.md)
  3. Multiset Conditions 

## Multiset Conditions

Multiset conditions test various aspects of nested tables.

### IS A SET Condition

Use `IS` `A` `SET` conditions to test whether a specified nested table is
composed of unique elements. The condition returns `UNKNOWN` if the nested
table is `NULL`. Otherwise, it returns `TRUE` if the nested table is a set,
even if it is a nested table of length zero, and `FALSE` otherwise.

is_a_set_condition::=

![Description of is_a_set_condition.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/is_a_set_condition.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
is_a_set_condition.eps](img_text/is_a_set_condition.md)

Example

The following example selects from the table `customers_demo` those rows in
which the `cust_address_ntab` nested table column contains unique elements:

    
    
    SELECT customer_id, cust_address_ntab
      FROM customers_demo
      WHERE cust_address_ntab IS A SET
      ORDER BY customer_id;
    
    CUSTOMER_ID CUST_ADDRESS_NTAB(STREET_ADDRESS, POSTAL_CODE, CITY, STATE_PROVINCE, COUNTRY_ID)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            101 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('514 W Superior St', '46901', 'Kokomo', 'IN', 'US'))
            102 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('2515 Bloyd Ave', '46218', 'Indianapolis', 'IN', 'US'))
            103 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('8768 N State Rd 37', '47404', 'Bloomington', 'IN', 'US'))
            104 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('6445 Bay Harbor Ln', '46254', 'Indianapolis', 'IN', 'US'))
            105 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('4019 W 3Rd St', '47404', 'Bloomington', 'IN', 'US'))
    

The preceding example requires the table `customers_demo` and a nested table
column containing data. Refer to "[Multiset Operators](Multiset-
Operators.md#GUID-793FCBB0-A97C-4884-BCAC-DD0542EA746B)" to create this
table and nested table column.

### IS EMPTY Condition

Use the `IS` `[NOT]` `EMPTY` conditions to test whether a specified nested
table is empty. A nested table that consists of a single value, a `NULL`, is
not considered an empty nested table.

is_empty_condition::=

![Description of is_empty_condition.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/is_empty_condition.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
is_empty_condition.eps](img_text/is_empty_condition.md)

The condition returns a Boolean value: `TRUE` for an `IS` `EMPTY` condition if
the collection is empty, and `TRUE` for an `IS` `NOT` `EMPTY` condition if the
collection is not empty. If you specify `NULL` for the nested table or varray,
then the result is `NULL`.

Example

The following example selects from the sample table `pm.print_media` those
rows in which the `ad_textdocs_ntab` nested table column is not empty:

    
    
    SELECT product_id, TO_CHAR(ad_finaltext) AS text
       FROM print_media
       WHERE ad_textdocs_ntab IS NOT EMPTY 
       ORDER BY product_id, text;

### MEMBER Condition

member_condition::=

![Description of member_condition.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/member_condition.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
member_condition.eps](img_text/member_condition.md)

A `member_condition` is a membership condition that tests whether an element
is a member of a nested table. The return value is `TRUE` if `expr` is equal
to a member of the specified nested table or varray. The return value is
`NULL` if `expr` is null or if the nested table is empty.

  * `expr` must be of the same type as the element type of the nested table. 

  * The `OF` keyword is optional and does not change the behavior of the condition. 

  * The `NOT` keyword reverses the Boolean output: Oracle returns `FALSE` if `expr` is a member of the specified nested table. 

  * The element types of the nested table must be comparable. Refer to [Comparison Conditions](Comparison-Conditions.md#GUID-828576BF-E606-4EA6-B94B-BFF48B67F927) for information on the comparability of nonscalar types. 

Example

The following example selects from the table `customers_demo` those rows in
which the `cust_address_ntab` nested table column contains the values
specified in the `WHERE` clause:

    
    
    SELECT customer_id, cust_address_ntab
      FROM customers_demo
      WHERE cust_address_typ('8768 N State Rd 37', 47404, 
                             'Bloomington', 'IN', 'US')
      MEMBER OF cust_address_ntab
      ORDER BY customer_id;
    
    CUSTOMER_ID CUST_ADDRESS_NTAB(STREET_ADDRESS, POSTAL_CODE, CITY, STATE_PROVINCE, COUNTRY_ID)
    ------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            103 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('8768 N State Rd 37', '47404', 'Bloomington', 'IN', 'US'))
    

The preceding example requires the table `customers_demo` and a nested table
column containing data. Refer to [Multiset Operators](Multiset-
Operators.md#GUID-793FCBB0-A97C-4884-BCAC-DD0542EA746B) to create this table
and nested table column.

### SUBMULTISET Condition

The `SUBMULTISET` condition tests whether a specified nested table is a
submultiset of another specified nested table.

The operator returns a Boolean value. `TRUE` is returned when `nested_table1`
is a submultiset of `nested_table2`. `nested_table1` is a submultiset of
`nested_table2` when one of the following conditions occur:

  * `nested_table1` is not null and contains no rows. `TRUE` is returned even if `nested_table2` is null since an empty multiset is a submultiset of any non-null replacement for `nested_table2`. 

  * `nested_table1` and `nested_table2` are not null, `nested_table1` does not contain a null element, and there is a one-to-one mapping of each element in `nested_table1` to an equal element in `nested_table2`. 

`NULL` is returned when one of the following conditions occurs:

  * `nested_table1` is null. 

  * `nested_table2` is null, and `nested_table1` is not null and not empty. 

  * `nested_table1` is a submultiset of `nested_table2` after modifying each null element of `nested_table1` and `nested_table2` to some non-null value, enabling a one-to-one mapping of each element in `nested_table1` to an equal element in `nested_table2`. 

If none of the above conditions occur, then `FALSE` is returned.

submultiset_condition::=

![Description of submultiset_condition.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/submultiset_condition.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
submultiset_condition.eps](img_text/submultiset_condition.md)

  * The `OF` keyword is optional and does not change the behavior of the operator. 

  * The `NOT` keyword reverses the Boolean output: Oracle returns `FALSE` if `nested_table1` is a subset of `nested_table2`. 

  * The element types of the nested table must be comparable. Refer to [Comparison Conditions](Comparison-Conditions.md#GUID-828576BF-E606-4EA6-B94B-BFF48B67F927) for information on the comparability of nonscalar types. 

Example

The following example selects from the `customers_demo` table those rows in
which the `cust_address_ntab` nested table is a submultiset of the
`cust_address2_ntab` nested table:

    
    
    SELECT customer_id, cust_address_ntab
      FROM customers_demo
      WHERE cust_address_ntab SUBMULTISET OF cust_address2_ntab
      ORDER BY customer_id;
    

The preceding example requires the table `customers_demo` and two nested table
columns containing data. Refer to [Multiset Operators](Multiset-
Operators.md#GUID-793FCBB0-A97C-4884-BCAC-DD0542EA746B) to create this table
and nested table columns.


[← Previous](Multiset-Conditions.md)

[Next →](Pattern-matching-Conditions.md)
