[Previous](Set-Operators.md) [Next](shard_chunk_id-operator.md) JavaScript
must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Operators](Operators.md)
  3. Multiset Operators 

## Multiset Operators

Multiset operators combine the results of two nested tables into a single
nested table.

The examples related to multiset operators require that two nested tables be
created and loaded with data as follows:

First, make a copy of the `oe.customers` table called `customers_demo`:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE customers_demo AS
      SELECT * FROM customers;
    

Next, create a table type called `cust_address_tab_typ`. This type will be
used when creating the nested table columns.

    
    
    CREATE TYPE cust_address_tab_typ AS
      TABLE OF cust_address_typ;
    /
    

Now, create two nested table columns in the `customers_demo` table:

    
    
    ALTER TABLE customers_demo
      ADD (cust_address_ntab cust_address_tab_typ,
           cust_address2_ntab cust_address_tab_typ)
        NESTED TABLE cust_address_ntab STORE AS cust_address_ntab_store
        NESTED TABLE cust_address2_ntab STORE AS cust_address2_ntab_store;
    

Finally, load data into the two new nested table columns using data from the
`cust_address` column of the `oe.customers` table:

    
    
    UPDATE customers_demo cd
      SET cust_address_ntab = 
        CAST(MULTISET(SELECT cust_address
                        FROM customers c
                        WHERE c.customer_id =
                              cd.customer_id) as cust_address_tab_typ);
    
    UPDATE customers_demo cd
      SET cust_address2_ntab = 
        CAST(MULTISET(SELECT cust_address
                        FROM customers c
                        WHERE c.customer_id =
                              cd.customer_id) as cust_address_tab_typ);

### MULTISET EXCEPT

`MULTISET` `EXCEPT` takes as arguments two nested tables and returns a nested
table whose elements are in the first nested table but not in the second
nested table. The two input nested tables must be of the same type, and the
returned nested table is of the same type as well.

![Description of multiset_except.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/multiset_except.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
multiset_except.eps](img_text/multiset_except.md)

  * The `ALL` keyword instructs Oracle to return all elements in `nested_table1` that are not in `nested_table2`. For example, if a particular element occurs `m` times in `nested_table1` and `n` times in `nested_table2`, then the result will have `(m-n)` occurrences of the element if `m >n` and 0 occurrences if `m<=n`. `ALL` is the default. 

  * The `DISTINCT` keyword instructs Oracle to eliminate any element in `nested_table1` which is also in `nested_table2`, regardless of the number of occurrences. 

  * The element types of the nested tables must be comparable. Refer to [Comparison Conditions](Comparison-Conditions.md#GUID-828576BF-E606-4EA6-B94B-BFF48B67F927) for information on the comparability of nonscalar types. 

Example

The following example compares two nested tables and returns a nested table of
those elements found in the first nested table but not in the second nested
table:

    
    
    SELECT customer_id, cust_address_ntab
      MULTISET EXCEPT DISTINCT cust_address2_ntab multiset_except
      FROM customers_demo
      ORDER BY customer_id;
    
    CUSTOMER_ID MULTISET_EXCEPT(STREET_ADDRESS, POSTAL_CODE, CITY, STATE_PROVINCE, COUNTRY_ID)
    ----------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            101 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP()
            102 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP()
            103 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP()
            104 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP()
            105 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP()
    . . .

The preceding example requires the table `customers_demo` and two nested table
columns containing data. Refer to [Multiset Operators](Multiset-
Operators.md#GUID-793FCBB0-A97C-4884-BCAC-DD0542EA746B) to create this table
and nested table columns.

### MULTISET INTERSECT

`MULTISET` `INTERSECT` takes as arguments two nested tables and returns a
nested table whose values are common in the two input nested tables. The two
input nested tables must be of the same type, and the returned nested table is
of the same type as well.

![Description of multiset_intersect.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/multiset_intersect.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
multiset_intersect.eps](img_text/multiset_intersect.md)

  * The `ALL` keyword instructs Oracle to return all common occurrences of elements that are in the two input nested tables, including duplicate common values and duplicate common `NULL` occurrences. For example, if a particular value occurs `m` times in `nested_table1` and `n` times in `nested_table2`, then the result would contain the element `min(m,n)` times. `ALL` is the default. 

  * The `DISTINCT` keyword instructs Oracle to eliminate duplicates from the returned nested table, including duplicates of `NULL`, if they exist. 

  * The element types of the nested tables must be comparable. Refer to [Comparison Conditions](Comparison-Conditions.md#GUID-828576BF-E606-4EA6-B94B-BFF48B67F927) for information on the comparability of nonscalar types. 

Example

The following example compares two nested tables and returns a nested table of
those elements found in both input nested tables:

    
    
    SELECT customer_id, cust_address_ntab
      MULTISET INTERSECT DISTINCT cust_address2_ntab multiset_intersect
      FROM customers_demo
      ORDER BY customer_id;
    
    CUSTOMER_ID MULTISET_INTERSECT(STREET_ADDRESS, POSTAL_CODE, CITY, STATE_PROVINCE, COUNTRY_ID
    ----------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            101 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('514 W Superior St', '46901', 'Kokomo', 'IN', 'US'))
            102 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('2515 Bloyd Ave', '46218', 'Indianapolis', 'IN', 'US'))
            103 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('8768 N State Rd 37', '47404', 'Bloomington', 'IN', 'US'))
            104 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('6445 Bay Harbor Ln', '46254', 'Indianapolis', 'IN', 'US'))
            105 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('4019 W 3Rd St', '47404', 'Bloomington', 'IN', 'US'))
    . . .

The preceding example requires the table `customers_demo` and two nested table
columns containing data. Refer to [Multiset Operators](Multiset-
Operators.md#GUID-793FCBB0-A97C-4884-BCAC-DD0542EA746B) to create this table
and nested table columns.

### MULTISET UNION

`MULTISET` `UNION` takes as arguments two nested tables and returns a nested
table whose values are those of the two input nested tables. The two input
nested tables must be of the same type, and the returned nested table is of
the same type as well.

![Description of multiset_union.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/multiset_union.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
multiset_union.eps](img_text/multiset_union.md)

  * The `ALL` keyword instructs Oracle to return all elements that are in the two input nested tables, including duplicate values and duplicate `NULL` occurrences. This is the default. 

  * The `DISTINCT` keyword instructs Oracle to eliminate duplicates from the returned nested table, including duplicates of `NULL`, if they exist. 

  * The element types of the nested tables must be comparable. Refer to [Comparison Conditions](Comparison-Conditions.md#GUID-828576BF-E606-4EA6-B94B-BFF48B67F927) for information on the comparability of nonscalar types. 

Example

The following example compares two nested tables and returns a nested table of
elements from both input nested tables:

    
    
    SELECT customer_id, cust_address_ntab
      MULTISET UNION cust_address2_ntab multiset_union
      FROM customers_demo
      ORDER BY customer_id;
    
    CUSTOMER_ID MULTISET_UNION(STREET_ADDRESS, POSTAL_CODE, CITY, STATE_PROVINCE, COUNTRY_ID)
    ----------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            101 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('514 W Superior St', '46901', 'Kokomo', 'IN', 'US'),
                                     CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('514 W Superior St', '46901', 'Kokomo', 'IN', 'US'))
            102 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('2515 Bloyd Ave', '46218', 'Indianapolis', 'IN', 'US'), 
                                     CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('2515 Bloyd Ave', '46218', 'Indianapolis', 'IN','US'))
            103 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('8768 N State Rd 37', '47404', 'Bloomington', 'IN', 'US'), 
                                     CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('8768 N State Rd 37', '47404', 'Bloomington', 'IN', 'US'))
            104 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('6445 Bay Harbor Ln', '46254', 'Indianapolis', 'IN', 'US'), 
                                     CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('6445 Bay Harbor Ln', '46254', 'Indianapolis', 'IN', 'US'))
            105 CUST_ADDRESS_TAB_TYP(CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('4019 W 3Rd St', '47404', 'Bloomington', 'IN', 'US'), 
                                     CUST_ADDRESS_TYP('4019 W 3Rd St', '47404', 'Bloomington', 'IN', 'US'))
    . . .

The preceding example requires the table `customers_demo` and two nested table
columns containing data. Refer to [Multiset Operators](Multiset-
Operators.md#GUID-793FCBB0-A97C-4884-BCAC-DD0542EA746B) to create this table
and nested table columns.


[← Previous](Multiset-Operators.md)

[Next →](shard_chunk_id-operator.md)
