[Previous](NLS_UPPER.md) [Next](NTH_VALUE.md) JavaScript must be enabled
to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. NLSSORT 

## NLSSORT

Syntax

![Description of nlssort.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/nlssort.gif)  
[Description of the illustration nlssort.eps](img_text/nlssort.md)

Purpose

`NLSSORT` returns a collation key for the character value `char` and an
explicitly or implicitly specified collation. A collation key is a string of
bytes used to sort `char` according to the specified collation. The property
of the collation keys is that mutual ordering of two such keys generated for
the given collation when compared according to their binary order is the same
as mutual ordering of the source character values when compared according to
the given collation.

Both `char` and '`nlsparam`' can be any of the data types `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`,
`NCHAR`, or `NVARCHAR2`.

The value of '`nlsparam`' must have the form

    
    
    'NLS_SORT = collation'
    

where `collation` is the name of a linguistic collation or `BINARY`. `NLSSORT`
uses the specified collation to generate the collation key. If you omit
'`nlsparam`', then this function uses the derived collation of the argument
`char`. If you specify `BINARY`, then this function returns the `char` value
itself cast to `RAW` and possibly truncated as described below.

If you specify '`nlsparam`', then you can append to the linguistic collation
name the suffix `_ai` to request an accent-insensitive collation or `_ci` to
request a case-insensitive collation. Refer to [Oracle Database Globalization
Support Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG005) for more information on accent- and case-
insensitive sorting. Using accent-insensitive or case-insensitive collations
with the `ORDER` `BY` query clause is not recommended as it leads to a
nondeterministic sort order.

The returned collation key is of `RAW` data type. The length of the collation
key resulting from a given `char` value for a given collation may exceed the
maximum length of the `RAW` value returned by `NLSSORT`. In this case, the
behavior of `NLSSORT` depends on the value of the initialization parameter
`MAX_STRING_SIZE`. If `MAX_STRING_SIZE` `=` `EXTENDED`, then the maximum
length of the return value is 32767 bytes. If the collation key exceeds this
limit, then the function fails with the error "ORA-12742: unable to create the
collation key". This error may also be reported for short input strings if
they contain a high percentage of Unicode characters with very high
decomposition ratios.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Globalization Support
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG-GUID-F2CF03B7-BD32-42D5-803A-0F4F03A1D4FE) for
details of when the `ORA-12742` error is reported and how to prevent
application availability issues that the error could cause

If `MAX_STRING_SIZE` `=` `STANDARD`, then the maximum length of the return
value is 2000 bytes. If the value to be returned exceeds the limit, then
`NLSSORT` calculates the collation key for a maximum prefix, or initial
substring, of `char` so that the calculated result does not exceed the maximum
length. For monolingual collations, for example `FRENCH`, the prefix length is
typically 1000 characters. For multilingual collations, for example
`GENERIC_M`, the prefix is typically 500 characters. For Unicode Collation
Algorithm (UCA) collations, for example `UCA0610_DUCET`, the prefix is
typically 285 characters. The exact length may be lower or higher depending on
the collation and the characters contained in `char`.

The behavior when `MAX_STRING_SIZE` `=` `STANDARD` implies that two character
values whose collation keys (`NLSSORT` results) are compared to find the
linguistic ordering are considered equal if they do not differ in the prefix
even though they may differ at some further character position. Because the
`NLSSORT` function is used implicitly to find linguistic ordering for
comparison conditions, the `BETWEEN` condition, the `IN` condition, `ORDER`
`BY`, `GROUP` `BY`, and `COUNT(DISTINCT)`, those operations may return results
that are only approximate for long character values. If you want guarantee
that the results of those operations are exact, then migrate your database to
use `MAX_STRING_SIZE` `=` `EXTENDED`.

Refer to "[Extended Data Types](Data-
Types.md#GUID-8EFA29E9-E8D8-40A6-A43E-954908C954A4)" for more information on
the `MAX_STRING_SIZE` initialization parameter.

This function does not support `CLOB` data directly. However, `CLOB`s can be
passed in as arguments through implicit data conversion.

See Also:

  * "[Data Type Comparison Rules](Data-Type-Comparison-Rules.md#GUID-1563C817-86BF-430B-99AB-322EE2E29187)" for more information. 

  * Appendix C in [Oracle Database Globalization Support Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG-GUID-AFCE41ED-775B-4A00-AF38-C436776AE0C5) for the collation determination rules for `NLSSORT`

Examples

This function can be used to specify sorting and comparison operations based
on a linguistic sort sequence rather than on the binary value of a string. The
following example creates a test table containing two values and shows how the
values returned can be ordered by the `NLSSORT` function:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE test (name VARCHAR2(15));
    INSERT INTO test VALUES ('Gaardiner');
    INSERT INTO test VALUES ('Gaberd');
    INSERT INTO test VALUES ('Gaasten');
    
    SELECT *
      FROM test
      ORDER BY name;
    
    NAME
    ---------------
    Gaardiner
    Gaasten
    Gaberd
    
    SELECT *
      FROM test
      ORDER BY NLSSORT(name, 'NLS_SORT = XDanish');
    
    NAME
    ---------------
    Gaberd
    Gaardiner
    Gaasten
    

The following example shows how to use the `NLSSORT` function in comparison
operations:

    
    
    SELECT *
      FROM test
      WHERE name > 'Gaberd'
      ORDER BY name;
    
    no rows selected
    
    SELECT *
      FROM test
      WHERE NLSSORT(name, 'NLS_SORT = XDanish') > 
            NLSSORT('Gaberd', 'NLS_SORT = XDanish')
      ORDER BY name;
    
    NAME
    ---------------
    Gaardiner
    Gaasten
    

If you frequently use `NLSSORT` in comparison operations with the same
linguistic sort sequence, then consider this more efficient alternative: Set
the `NLS_COMP` parameter (either for the database or for the current session)
to `LINGUISTIC`, and set the `NLS_SORT` parameter for the session to the
desired sort sequence. Oracle Database will use that sort sequence by default
for all sorting and comparison operations during the current session:

    
    
    ALTER SESSION SET NLS_COMP = 'LINGUISTIC';
    ALTER SESSION SET NLS_SORT = 'XDanish';
    
    SELECT *
      FROM test
      WHERE name > 'Gaberd'
      ORDER BY name;
    
    NAME
    ---------------
    Gaardiner
    Gaasten

See Also:

[Oracle Database Globalization Support
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG005) for information on sort sequences


[← Previous](NLS_UPPER.md)

[Next →](NTH_VALUE.md)
