[Previous](OBJECT_VALUE-Pseudocolumn.md) [Next](ora_shardspace_name-
pseudocolumn.md) JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this
content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Pseudocolumns](Pseudocolumns.md)
  3. ORA_ROWSCN Pseudocolumn 

## ORA_ROWSCN Pseudocolumn

`ORA_ROWSCN` reflects the system change-number (SCN) of the most recent change to a row. This change can be at the level of a block (coarse) or at the level of a row (fine-grained). The latter is provided by row-level dependency tracking. Refer to `CREATE` `TABLE` ... [NOROWDEPENDENCIES | ROWDEPENDENCIES](CREATE-TABLE.md#GUID-F9CE0CC3-13AE-4744-A43C-EAC7A71AAAB6__CJAEEGDA) for more information on row-level dependency tracking. In the absence of row-level dependencies, `ORA_ROWSCN` reflects block-level dependencies. 

Whether at the block level or at the row level, the `ORA_ROWSCN` should not be
considered to be an exact SCN. For example, if a transaction changed row R in
a block and committed at SCN 10, it is not always true that the `ORA_ROWSCN`
for the row would return 10. While a value less than 10 would never be
returned, any value greater than or equal to 10 could be returned. That is,
the `ORA_ROWSCN` of a row is not always guaranteed to be the exact commit SCN
of the transaction that last modified that row. However, with fine-grained
`ORA_ROWSCN`, if two transactions T1 and T2 modified the same row R, one after
another, and committed, a query on the `ORA_ROWSCN` of row R after the commit
of T1 will return a value lower than the value returned after the commit of
T2. If a block is queried twice, then it is possible for the value of
`ORA_ROWSCN` to change between the queries even though rows have not been
updated in the time between the queries. The only guarantee is that the value
of `ORA_ROWSCN` in both queries is greater than the commit SCN of the
transaction that last modified that row.

You cannot use the `ORA_ROWSCN` pseudocolumn in a query to a view. However,
you can use it to refer to the underlying table when creating a view. You can
also use this pseudocolumn in the `WHERE` clause of an `UPDATE` or `DELETE`
statement.

`ORA_ROWSCN` is not supported for Flashback Query. Instead, use the version
query pseudocolumns, which are provided explicitly for Flashback Query. Refer
to the `SELECT` ... [flashback_query_clause](SELECT.md#GUID-
CFA006CA-6FF1-4972-821E-6996142A51C6__I2112818) for information on Flashback
Query and [Version Query Pseudocolumns](Version-Query-
Pseudocolumns.md#GUID-F4DB0235-43A9-4AA2-8E9C-F2D9699D4AAD) for additional
information on those pseudocolumns.

Restriction on ORA_ROWSCN: This pseudocolumn is not supported for external
tables.

Example

The first statement below uses the `ORA_ROWSCN` pseudocolumn to get the system
change number of the last operation on the `employees` table. The second
statement uses the pseudocolumn with the `SCN_TO_TIMESTAMP` function to
determine the timestamp of the operation:

    
    
    SELECT ORA_ROWSCN, last_name
      FROM employees
      WHERE employee_id = 188;
    
    SELECT SCN_TO_TIMESTAMP(ORA_ROWSCN), last_name
      FROM employees
      WHERE employee_id = 188;

See Also:

[SCN_TO_TIMESTAMP](SCN_TO_TIMESTAMP.md#GUID-
BCB0C8EE-0E03-4A61-A41A-69975FAC1803)


[← Previous](OBJECT_VALUE-Pseudocolumn.md)

[Next →](ora_shardspace_name-pseudocolumn.md)
