[Previous](Multiset-Conditions.md) [Next](Null-Conditions.md) JavaScript
must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Conditions](Conditions.md)
  3. Pattern-matching Conditions 

## Pattern-matching Conditions

The pattern-matching conditions compare character data.

### LIKE Condition

The `LIKE` conditions specify a test involving pattern matching. Whereas the
equality operator (=) exactly matches one character value to another, the
`LIKE` conditions match a portion of one character value to another by
searching the first value for the pattern specified by the second. `LIKE`
calculates strings using characters as defined by the input character set.
`LIKEC` uses Unicode complete characters. `LIKE2` uses UCS2 code points.
`LIKE4` uses UCS4 code points.

like_condition::=

![Description of like_condition.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/like_condition.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
like_condition.eps](img_text/like_condition.md)

In this syntax:

  * `char1` is a character expression, such as a character column, called the search value. 

  * `char2` is a character expression, usually a literal, called the pattern. 

  * `esc_char` is a character expression, usually a literal, called the escape character. 

The `LIKE` condition is the best choice in almost all situations. Use the
following guidelines to determine whether any of the variations would be
helpful in your environment:

  * Use `LIKE2` to process strings using UCS-2 semantics. `LIKE2` treats a Unicode supplementary character as two characters. 

  * Use `LIKE4` to process strings using UCS-4 semantics. `LIKE4` treats a Unicode supplementary character as one character. 

  * Use `LIKEC` to process strings using Unicode complete character semantics. `LIKEC` treats a composite character as one character. 

For more on character length see the following:

  * [Oracle Database Globalization Support Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG435)

  * [Oracle Database SecureFiles and Large Objects Developer's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADLOB45586)

If `esc_char` is not specified, then there is no default escape character. If
any of `char1`, `char2`, or `esc_char` is null, then the result is unknown.
Otherwise, the escape character, if specified, must be a character string of
length 1.

All of the character expressions (`char1`, `char2`, and `esc_char`) can be of
any of the data types `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `NCHAR`, or `NVARCHAR2`. If they
differ, then Oracle converts all of them to the data type of `char1`.

The pattern can contain special pattern-matching characters:

  * An underscore (_) in the pattern matches exactly one character (as opposed to one byte in a multibyte character set) in the value. 

  * A percent sign (%) in the pattern can match zero or more characters (as opposed to bytes in a multibyte character set) in the value. The pattern '%' cannot match a null. 

You can include the actual characters `%` or `_` in the pattern by using the
`ESCAPE` clause, which identifies the escape character. If the escape
character precedes the character `%` or `_` in the pattern, then Oracle
interprets this character literally in the pattern rather than as a special
pattern-matching character. You can also search for the escape character
itself by repeating it. For example, if @ is the escape character, then you
can use @@ to search for @.

Note:

Only ASCII-equivalent underscore (_) and percent (%) characters are recognized
as pattern-matching characters. Their full-width variants, present in East
Asian character sets and in Unicode, are treated as normal characters.

[Table 6-8](Pattern-matching-
Conditions.md#GUID-0779657B-06A8-441F-90C5-044B47862A0A__CJADEBJE "The first
column lists the LIKE conditions, the second column describes their operation,
and the third provides an example.") describes the `LIKE` conditions.

Table 6-8 LIKE Condition ``

Type of Condition | Operation | Example  
---|---|---  
      
    
    x [NOT] LIKE y 
    [ESCAPE 'z'] 

|  `TRUE` if `x` does [not] match the pattern `y`. Within `y`, the character `%` matches any string of zero or more characters except null. The character `_` matches any single character. Any character can follow `ESCAPE` except percent (%) and underbar (_). A wildcard character is treated as a literal if preceded by the escape character.  | 
    
    
    SELECT last_name 
       FROM employees
       WHERE last_name 
       LIKE '%A\_B%' ESCAPE '\'
       ORDER BY last_name;   
  
To process the `LIKE` conditions, Oracle divides the pattern into subpatterns
consisting of one or two characters each. The two-character subpatterns begin
with the escape character and the other character is %, or _, or the escape
character.

Let P1, P2, ..., Pn be these subpatterns. The like condition is true if there
is a way to partition the search value into substrings S1, S2, ..., Sn so that
for all i between 1 and n:

  * If Pi is _, then Si is a single character. 

  * If Pi is %, then Si is any string. 

  * If Pi is two characters beginning with an escape character, then Si is the second character of Pi. 

  * Otherwise, Pi = Si. 

With the `LIKE` conditions, you can compare a value to a pattern rather than
to a constant. The pattern must appear after the `LIKE` keyword. For example,
you can issue the following query to find the salaries of all employees with
names beginning with `R`:

    
    
    SELECT salary 
        FROM employees
        WHERE last_name LIKE 'R%'
        ORDER BY salary;
    

The following query uses the = operator, rather than the `LIKE` condition, to
find the salaries of all employees with the name 'R%':

    
    
    SELECT salary 
        FROM employees 
        WHERE last_name = 'R%'
        ORDER BY salary;
    

The following query finds the salaries of all employees with the name 'SM%'.
Oracle interprets 'SM%' as a text literal, rather than as a pattern, because
it precedes the `LIKE` keyword:

    
    
    SELECT salary 
        FROM employees 
        WHERE 'SM%' LIKE last_name
        ORDER BY salary;

Collation and Case Sensitivity

The `LIKE` condition is collation-sensitive. Oracle Database compares the
subpattern Pi to the substring Si in the processing algorithm above using the
collation determined from the derived collations of `char1` and `char2`. If
this collation is case-insensitive, the pattern-matching is case-insensitive
as well.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Globalization Support
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG0051) for more information on case- and accent-
insensitive collations and on collation determination rules for the `LIKE`
condition

Pattern Matching on Indexed Columns

When you use `LIKE` to search an indexed column for a pattern, Oracle can use
the index to improve performance of a query if the leading character in the
pattern is not `%` or `_`. In this case, Oracle can scan the index by this
leading character. If the first character in the pattern is `%` or `_`, then
the index cannot improve performance because Oracle cannot scan the index.

LIKE Condition: General Examples

This condition is true for all `last_name` values beginning with `Ma`:

    
    
    last_name LIKE 'Ma%' 
    

All of these `last_name` values make the condition true:

    
    
    Mallin, Markle, Marlow, Marvins, Mavris, Matos 
    

Case is significant, so `last_name` values beginning with `MA`, `ma`, and `mA`
make the condition false.

Consider this condition:

    
    
    last_name LIKE 'SMITH_' 
    

This condition is true for these `last_name` values:

    
    
    SMITHE, SMITHY, SMITHS 
    

This condition is false for `SMITH` because the special underscore character
(`_`) must match exactly one character of the `last_name` value.

ESCAPE Clause Example

The following example searches for employees with the pattern `A_B` in their
name:

    
    
    SELECT last_name 
        FROM employees
        WHERE last_name LIKE '%A\_B%' ESCAPE '\'
        ORDER BY last_name;
    

The `ESCAPE` clause identifies the backslash (\\) as the escape character. In
the pattern, the escape character precedes the underscore (_). This causes
Oracle to interpret the underscore literally, rather than as a special pattern
matching character.

Patterns Without % Example

If a pattern does not contain the `%` character, then the condition can be
true only if both operands have the same length. Consider the definition of
this table and the values inserted into it:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE ducks (f CHAR(6), v VARCHAR2(6));
    INSERT INTO ducks VALUES ('DUCK', 'DUCK');
    SELECT '*'||f||'*' "char",
       '*'||v||'*' "varchar"
       FROM ducks;
    
    char     varchar
    -------- --------
    *DUCK  * *DUCK*
    

Because Oracle blank-pads `CHAR` values, the value of `f` is blank-padded to 6
bytes. `v` is not blank-padded and has length 4.

### REGEXP_LIKE Condition

`REGEXP_LIKE` is similar to the `LIKE` condition, except `REGEXP_LIKE`
performs regular expression matching instead of the simple pattern matching
performed by `LIKE`. This condition evaluates strings using characters as
defined by the input character set.

This condition complies with the POSIX regular expression standard and the
Unicode Regular Expression Guidelines. For more information, refer to [Oracle
Regular Expression Support](Oracle-Regular-Expression-
Support.md#GUID-969230D6-FC1A-4C75-BF2A-6B1BE909DED6).

regexp_like_condition::=

![Description of regexp_like_condition.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/regexp_like_condition.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
regexp_like_condition.eps](img_text/regexp_like_condition.md)

  * `source_char` is a character expression that serves as the search value. It is commonly a character column and can be of any of the data types `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `NCHAR`, `NVARCHAR2`, `CLOB`, or `NCLOB`. 

  * `pattern` is the regular expression. It is usually a text literal and can be of any of the data types `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `NCHAR`, or `NVARCHAR2`. It can contain up to 512 bytes. If the data type of `pattern` is different from the data type of `source_char`, Oracle converts `pattern` to the data type of `source_char`. For a listing of the operators you can specify in `pattern`, refer to [Oracle Regular Expression Support](Oracle-Regular-Expression-Support.md#GUID-969230D6-FC1A-4C75-BF2A-6B1BE909DED6). 

  * `match_param` is a character expression of the data type `VARCHAR2` or `CHAR` that lets you change the default matching behavior of the condition. 

The value of `match_param` can include one or more of the following
characters:

    * `'i'` specifies case-insensitive matching, even if the determined collation of the condition is case-sensitive. 

    * `'c'` specifies case-sensitive and accent-sensitive matching, even if the determined collation of the condition is case-insensitive or accent-insensitive. 

    * `'n'` allows the period (.), which is the match-any-character wildcard character, to match the newline character. If you omit this parameter, then the period does not match the newline character. 

    * `'m'` treats the source string as multiple lines. Oracle interprets ` ^` and `$` as the start and end, respectively, of any line anywhere in the source string, rather than only at the start or end of the entire source string. If you omit this parameter, then Oracle treats the source string as a single line. 

    * `'x'` ignores whitespace characters. By default, whitespace characters match themselves. 

If the value of `match_param` contains multiple contradictory characters, then
Oracle uses the last character. For example, if you specify `'ic'`, then
Oracle uses case-sensitive and accent-sensitive matching. If the value
contains a character other than those shown above, then Oracle returns an
error.

If you omit `match_param`, then:

    * The default case and accent sensitivity are determined by the determined collation of the `REGEXP_LIKE` condition. 

    * A period (.) does not match the newline character.

    * The source string is treated as a single line.

Similar to the `LIKE` condition, the `REGEXP_LIKE` condition is collation-
sensitive.

See Also:

  * [LIKE Condition](Pattern-matching-Conditions.md#GUID-0779657B-06A8-441F-90C5-044B47862A0A)

  * [REGEXP_INSTR](REGEXP_INSTR.md#GUID-D21B53A1-83E2-4722-9BBB-638470715DD6) , [REGEXP_REPLACE](REGEXP_REPLACE.md#GUID-EA80A33C-441A-4692-A959-273B5A224490), and [REGEXP_SUBSTR](REGEXP_SUBSTR.md#GUID-2903904D-455F-4839-A8B2-1731EF4BD099) for functions that provide regular expression support 

  * Appendix C in [Oracle Database Globalization Support Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG-GUID-AFCE41ED-775B-4A00-AF38-C436776AE0C5) for the collation determination rules for the `REGEXP_LIKE` condition 

Examples

The following query returns the first and last names for those employees with
a first name of Steven or Stephen (where `first_name` begins with `Ste` and
ends with `en` and in between is either `v` or `ph)`:

    
    
    SELECT first_name, last_name
    FROM employees
    WHERE REGEXP_LIKE (first_name, '^Ste(v|ph)en$')
    ORDER BY first_name, last_name;
    
    FIRST_NAME           LAST_NAME
    -------------------- -------------------------
    Steven               King
    Steven               Markle
    Stephen              Stiles
    

The following query returns the last name for those employees with a double
vowel in their last name (where `last_name` contains two adjacent occurrences
of either `a`, `e`, `i`, `o`, or `u`, regardless of case):

    
    
    SELECT last_name
    FROM employees
    WHERE REGEXP_LIKE (last_name, '([aeiou])\1', 'i')
    ORDER BY last_name;
    
    LAST_NAME
    -------------------------
    De Haan
    Greenberg
    Khoo
    Gee
    Greene
    Lee
    Bloom
    Feeney


[← Previous](Pattern-matching-Conditions.md)

[Next →](Null-Conditions.md)
