[Previous](NOAUDIT-Unified-Auditing.md) [Next](RENAME.md) JavaScript must
be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: MERGE to UPDATE](SQL-Statements-MERGE-to-UPDATE.md)
  3. PURGE 

## PURGE

Purpose

Use the `PURGE` statement to:

  * Remove a table or index from your recycle bin and release all of the space associated with the object

  * Remove part or all of a dropped tablespace or tablespace set from the recycle bin

  * Remove the entire recycle bin

Note:

You cannot roll back a `PURGE` statement, nor can you recover an object after
it is purged.

To see the contents of your recycle bin, query the `USER_RECYCLEBIN` data
dictionary view. You can use the `RECYCLEBIN` synonym instead. The following
two statements return the same rows:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM RECYCLEBIN;
    SELECT * FROM USER_RECYCLEBIN;

See Also:

  * [Oracle Database Administrator's Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN01511) for information on the recycle bin and naming conventions for objects in the recycle bin 

  * [FLASHBACK TABLE](FLASHBACK-TABLE.md#GUID-FA9AF2FD-2DAD-4387-9E62-14AFC26EA85C) for information on retrieving dropped tables from the recycle bin 

  * [Oracle Database Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN10264) for information on using the `RECYCLEBIN` initialization parameter to control whether dropped tables go into the recycle bin 

Prerequisites

To purge a table, the table must reside in your own schema or you must have
the `DROP` `ANY` `TABLE` system privilege, or you must have the `SYSDBA`
system privilege.

To purge an index, the index must reside in your own schema or you must have
the `DROP` `ANY` `INDEX` system privilege, or you must have the `SYSDBA`
system privilege.

To purge a tablespace or tablespace set, you must have the `DROP` `TABLESPACE`
system privilege, or you must have the `SYSDBA` system privilege.

To purge a tablespace set, you must also be connected to a shard catalog
database as an SDB user.

To perform the `PURGE` `DBA_RECYCLEBIN` operation, you must have the `SYSDBA`
or `PURGE` `DBA_RECYCLEBIN` system privilege.

Syntax

purge::=

![Description of purge.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/purge.gif)  
[Description of the illustration purge.eps](img_text/purge.md)

Semantics

TABLE or INDEX

Specify the name of the table or index in the recycle bin that you want to
purge. You can specify either the original user-specified name or the system-
generated name Oracle Database assigned to the object when it was dropped.

  * If you specify the user-specified name, and if the recycle bin contains more than one object of that name, then the database purges the object that has been in the recycle bin the longest.

  * System-generated recycle bin object names are unique. Therefore, if you specify the system-generated name, then the database purges that specified object.

When the database purges a table, all table partitions, LOBs and LOB
partitions, indexes, and other dependent objects of that table are also
purged.

TABLESPACE or TABLESPACE SET

Use this clause to purge all the objects residing in the specified tablespace
or tablespace set from the recycle bin.

USER user

Use this clause to reclaim space in a tablespace or tablespace set for a
specified user. This operation is useful when a particular user is running low
on disk quota for the specified tablespace or tablespace set.

RECYCLEBIN

Use this clause to purge the current user's recycle bin. Oracle Database will
remove all objects from the user's recycle bin and release all space
associated with objects in the recycle bin.

DBA_RECYCLEBIN

This clause is valid only if you have the `SYSDBA` or `PURGE` `DBA_RECYCLEBIN`
system privilege. It lets you remove all objects from the system-wide recycle
bin, and is equivalent to purging the recycle bin of every user. This
operation is useful, for example, before backward migration.

Examples

Remove a File From Your Recycle Bin: Example

The following statement removes the table `test` from the recycle bin. If more
than one version of test resides in the recycle bin, then Oracle Database
removes the version that has been there the longest:

    
    
    PURGE TABLE test;
    

To determine system-generated name of the table you want removed from your
recycle bin, issue a `SELECT` statement on your recycle bin. Using that object
name, you can remove the table by issuing a statement similar to the following
statement. (The system-generated name will differ from the one shown in the
example.)

    
    
    PURGE TABLE RB$$33750$TABLE$0;

Remove the Contents of Your Recycle Bin: Example

To remove the entire contents of your recycle bin, issue the following
statement:

    
    
    PURGE RECYCLEBIN;


[← Previous](NOAUDIT-Unified-Auditing.md)

[Next →](RENAME.md)
