[Previous](REGEXP_REPLACE.md) [Next](REGR_-Linear-Regression-Functions.md)
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. REGEXP_SUBSTR 

## REGEXP_SUBSTR

Syntax

![Description of regexp_substr.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/regexp_substr.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
regexp_substr.eps](img_text/regexp_substr.md)

Purpose

`REGEXP_SUBSTR` extends the functionality of the `SUBSTR` function by letting
you search a string for a regular expression pattern. It is also similar to
`REGEXP_INSTR`, but instead of returning the position of the substring, it
returns the substring itself. This function is useful if you need the contents
of a match string but not its position in the source string. The function
returns the string as `VARCHAR2` or `CLOB` data in the same character set as
`source_char`.

This function complies with the POSIX regular expression standard and the
Unicode Regular Expression Guidelines. For more information, refer to [Oracle
Regular Expression Support](Oracle-Regular-Expression-
Support.md#GUID-969230D6-FC1A-4C75-BF2A-6B1BE909DED6).

  * `source_char` is a character expression that serves as the search value. It is commonly a character column and can be of any of the data types `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `NCHAR`, `NVARCHAR2`, `CLOB`, or `NCLOB`. 

  * `pattern` is the regular expression. It is usually a text literal and can be of any of the data types `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `NCHAR`, or `NVARCHAR2`. It can contain up to 512 bytes. If the data type of `pattern` is different from the data type of `source_char`, then Oracle Database converts `pattern` to the data type of `source_char`. For a listing of the operators you can specify in `pattern`, refer to [Oracle Regular Expression Support](Oracle-Regular-Expression-Support.md#GUID-969230D6-FC1A-4C75-BF2A-6B1BE909DED6). 

  * `position` is a positive integer indicating the character of `source_char` where Oracle should begin the search. The default is 1, meaning that Oracle begins the search at the first character of `source_char`. 

  * `occurrence` is a positive integer indicating which occurrence of `pattern` in `source_char` Oracle should search for. The default is 1, meaning that Oracle searches for the first occurrence of `pattern`. 

If `occurrence` is greater than 1, then the database searches for the second
occurrence beginning with the first character following the first occurrence
of `pattern`, and so forth. This behavior is different from the `SUBSTR`
function, which begins its search for the second occurrence at the second
character of the first occurrence.

  * `match_param` is a character expression of the data type `VARCHAR2` or `CHAR` that lets you change the default matching behavior of the function. The behavior of this parameter is the same for this function as for `REGEXP_COUNT`. Refer to [REGEXP_COUNT](REGEXP_COUNT.md#GUID-5148AF2E-9CED-497D-A78D-3A7847A45276) for detailed information. 

  * For a `pattern` with subexpressions, `subexpr` is a nonnegative integer from 0 to 9 indicating which subexpression in `pattern` is to be returned by the function. This parameter has the same semantics that it has for the `REGEXP_INSTR` function. Refer to [REGEXP_INSTR](REGEXP_INSTR.md#GUID-D21B53A1-83E2-4722-9BBB-638470715DD6) for more information. 

See Also:

  * [SUBSTR](SUBSTR.md#GUID-C8A20B57-C647-4649-A379-8651AA97187E) and [REGEXP_INSTR](REGEXP_INSTR.md#GUID-D21B53A1-83E2-4722-9BBB-638470715DD6)

  * [REGEXP_REPLACE](REGEXP_REPLACE.md#GUID-EA80A33C-441A-4692-A959-273B5A224490), and [REGEXP_LIKE Condition](Pattern-matching-Conditions.md#GUID-D2124F3A-C6E4-4CCA-A40E-2FFCABFD8E19)

  * Appendix C in [Oracle Database Globalization Support Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG-GUID-AFCE41ED-775B-4A00-AF38-C436776AE0C5) for the collation determination rules, which define the collation `REGEXP_SUBSTR` uses to compare characters from `source_char` with characters from `pattern`, and for the collation derivation rules, which define the collation assigned to the character return value of this function 

Examples

The following example examines the string, looking for the first substring
bounded by commas. Oracle Database searches for a comma followed by one or
more occurrences of non-comma characters followed by a comma. Oracle returns
the substring, including the leading and trailing commas.

    
    
    SELECT
      REGEXP_SUBSTR('500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA',
                    ',[^,]+,') "REGEXPR_SUBSTR"
      FROM DUAL;
    
    REGEXPR_SUBSTR
    -----------------
    , Redwood Shores,
    

The following example examines the string, looking for `http://` followed by a
substring of one or more alphanumeric characters and optionally, a period
(`.`). Oracle searches for a minimum of three and a maximum of four
occurrences of this substring between `http://` and either a slash (`/`) or
the end of the string.

    
    
    SELECT
      REGEXP_SUBSTR('http://www.example.com/products',
                    'http://([[:alnum:]]+\.?){3,4}/?') "REGEXP_SUBSTR"
      FROM DUAL;
    
    REGEXP_SUBSTR
    ----------------------
    http://www.example.com/
    

The next two examples use the `subexpr` argument to return a specific
subexpression of `pattern`. The first statement returns the first
subexpression in `pattern`:

    
    
    SELECT REGEXP_SUBSTR('1234567890', '(123)(4(56)(78))', 1, 1, 'i', 1) 
    "REGEXP_SUBSTR" FROM DUAL;
    
    REGEXP_SUBSTR
    -------------------
    123
    

The next statement returns the fourth subexpression in `pattern`:

    
    
    SELECT REGEXP_SUBSTR('1234567890', '(123)(4(56)(78))', 1, 1, 'i', 4) 
    "REGEXP_SUBSTR" FROM DUAL;
    
    REGEXP_SUBSTR
    -------------------
    78

REGEXP_SUBSTR pattern matching: Examples

The following statements create a table regexp_temp and insert values into it:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE regexp_temp(empName varchar2(20), emailID varchar2(20));
    
    INSERT INTO regexp_temp (empName, emailID) VALUES ('John Doe', 'johndoe@example.com');
    INSERT INTO regexp_temp (empName, emailID) VALUES ('Jane Doe', 'janedoe');

In the following example, the statement queries the email column and searches
for valid email addresses:

    
    
    SELECT empName, REGEXP_SUBSTR(emailID, '[[:alnum:]]+\@[[:alnum:]]+\.[[:alnum:]]+') "Valid Email" FROM regexp_temp;
    
    EMPNAME  Valid Email
    -------- -------------------
    John Doe johndoe@example.com
    Jane Doe

In the following example, the statement queries the email column and returns
the count of valid email addresses:

    
    
    SELECT empName, REGEXP_SUBSTR(emailID, '[[:alnum:]]+\@[[:alnum:]]+\.[[:alnum:]]+') "Valid Email", REGEXP_INSTR(emailID, '\w+@\w+(\.\w+)+') "FIELD_WITH_VALID_EMAIL" FROM regexp_temp;
    
    EMPNAME		Valid Email			FIELD_WITH_VALID_EMAIL
    --------	-------------------	----------------------
    John Doe	johndoe@example.com	1
    Jane Doe	 

Live SQL:

View and run related examples on Oracle Live SQL at [REGEXP_SUBSTR pattern
matching](https://livesql.oracle.com/apex/livesql/docs/sqlrf/regexp_substr/find-
pattern-email.md)

In the following example, numbers and alphabets are extracted from a string:

    
    
    with strings as (   
      select 'ABC123' str from dual union all   
      select 'A1B2C3' str from dual union all   
      select '123ABC' str from dual union all   
      select '1A2B3C' str from dual   
    )   
      select regexp_substr(str, '[0-9]') First_Occurrence_of_Number,    
             regexp_substr(str, '[0-9].*') Num_Followed_by_String,   
             regexp_substr(str, '[A-Z][0-9]') Letter_Followed_by_String   
      from strings;
    
    FIRST_OCCURRENCE_OF_NUMB NUM_FOLLOWED_BY_STRING   LETTER_FOLLOWED_BY_STRIN
    ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
    1			 123			  C1
    1			 1B2C3			  A1
    1			 123ABC
    1			 1A2B3C 		  A2

Live SQL:

View and run a related example on Oracle Live SQL at [REGEXP_SUBSTR - Extract
Numbers and
Alphabets](https://livesql.oracle.com/apex/livesql/docs/sqlrf/regexp_substr/extract1.md)

In the following example, passenger names and flight information are extracted
from a string:

    
    
    with strings as (    
      select 'LHRJFK/010315/JOHNDOE' str from dual union all    
      select 'CDGLAX/050515/JANEDOE' str from dual union all    
      select 'LAXCDG/220515/JOHNDOE' str from dual union all    
      select 'SFOJFK/010615/JANEDOE' str from dual    
    )    
      SELECT regexp_substr(str, '[A-Z]{6}') String_of_6_characters,   
             regexp_substr(str, '[0-9]+') First_Matching_Numbers,   
             regexp_substr(str, '[A-Z].*$') Letter_by_other_characters,     
             regexp_substr(str, '/[A-Z].*$') Slash_letter_and_characters     
      FROM strings;
    
    STRING_OF_6_CHARACTERS	FIRST_MATCHING_NUMBERS	LETTER_BY_OTHER_CHARACTERS	SLASH_LETTER_AND_CHARACTERS
    ----------------------	----------------------	--------------------------	---------------------------
    LHRJFK	                010315	                LHRJFK/010315/JOHNDOE	      	/JOHNDOE
    CDGLAX	                050515	                CDGLAX/050515/JANEDOE	      	/JANEDOE
    LAXCDG	                220515	                LAXCDG/220515/JOHNDOE	      	/JOHNDOE
    SFOJFK	                010615	                SFOJFK/010615/JANEDOE	      	/JANEDOE

Live SQL:

View and run a related example on Oracle Live SQL at [REGEXP_SUBSTR - Extract
Passenger Names and Flight
Information](https://livesql.oracle.com/apex/livesql/docs/sqlrf/regexp_substr/extract2.md)


[← Previous](REGEXP_REPLACE.md)

[Next →](REGR_-Linear-Regression-Functions.md)
