[Previous](REGEXP_SUBSTR.md) [Next](REMAINDER.md) JavaScript must be
enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. REGR_ (Linear Regression) Functions 

## REGR_ (Linear Regression) Functions

The linear regression functions are:

  * `REGR_SLOPE`

  * `REGR_INTERCEPT`

  * `REGR_COUNT`

  * `REGR_R2`

  * `REGR_AVGX`

  * `REGR_AVGY`

  * `REGR_SXX`

  * `REGR_SYY`

  * `REGR_SXY`

Syntax

linear_regr::=

![Description of linear_regr.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/linear_regr.gif)  
[Description of the illustration linear_regr.eps](img_text/linear_regr.md)

See Also:

"[Analytic Functions](Analytic-
Functions.md#GUID-527832F7-63C0-4445-8C16-307FA5084056)" for information on
syntax, semantics, and restrictions

Purpose

The linear regression functions fit an ordinary-least-squares regression line
to a set of number pairs. You can use them as both aggregate and analytic
functions.

See Also:

"[Aggregate Functions](Aggregate-
Functions.md#GUID-62BE676B-AF18-4E63-BD14-25206FEA0848)" and "[About SQL
Expressions](About-SQL-
Expressions.md#GUID-68789A5C-B142-496F-ADEE-837F75F95B2B)" for information
on valid forms of `expr`

These functions take as arguments any numeric data type or any nonnumeric data
type that can be implicitly converted to a numeric data type. Oracle
determines the argument with the highest numeric precedence, implicitly
converts the remaining arguments to that data type, and returns that data
type.

See Also:

[Table 2-9](Data-Type-Comparison-
Rules.md#GUID-98BE3A78-6E33-4181-B5CB-D96FD9DC1694__G195937 "An X in a cell
indicates implicit conversion of the data types") for more information on
implicit conversion and "[Numeric Precedence](Data-
Types.md#GUID-4C0B65DB-E751-4957-A1ED-5044BAFA7812)" for information on
numeric precedence

Oracle applies the function to the set of (`expr1`, `expr2`) pairs after
eliminating all pairs for which either `expr1` or `expr2` is null. Oracle
computes all the regression functions simultaneously during a single pass
through the data.

`expr1` is interpreted as a value of the dependent variable (a `y` value), and
`expr2` is interpreted as a value of the independent variable (an `x` value).

  * `REGR_SLOPE` returns the slope of the line. The return value is a numeric data type and can be null. After the elimination of null (`expr1`, `expr2`) pairs, it makes the following computation: 
    
        COVAR_POP(expr1, expr2) / VAR_POP(expr2)
    

  * `REGR_INTERCEPT` returns the y-intercept of the regression line. The return value is a numeric data type and can be null. After the elimination of null (`expr1`, `expr2`) pairs, it makes the following computation: 
    
        AVG(expr1) - REGR_SLOPE(expr1, expr2) * AVG(expr2)
    

  * `REGR_COUNT` returns an integer that is the number of non-null number pairs used to fit the regression line. 

  * `REGR_R2` returns the coefficient of determination (also called R-squared or goodness of fit) for the regression. The return value is a numeric data type and can be null. `VAR_POP`(`expr1`) and `VAR_POP`(`expr2`) are evaluated after the elimination of null pairs. The return values are: 
    
                             NULL if VAR_POP(expr2)  = 0
    
                            1 if VAR_POP(expr1)  = 0 and 
                                 VAR_POP(expr2) != 0
    
    POWER(CORR(expr1,expr),2) if VAR_POP(expr1)  > 0 and
                                 VAR_POP(expr2  != 0
    

All of the remaining regression functions return a numeric data type and can
be null:

  * `REGR_AVGX` evaluates the average of the independent variable (`expr2`) of the regression line. It makes the following computation after the elimination of null (`expr1`, `expr2`) pairs: 
    
        AVG(expr2)
    

  * `REGR_AVGY` evaluates the average of the dependent variable (`expr1`) of the regression line. It makes the following computation after the elimination of null (`expr1`, `expr2`) pairs: 
    
        AVG(expr1)
    

`REGR_SXY`, `REGR_SXX`, `REGR_SYY` are auxiliary functions that are used to
compute various diagnostic statistics.

  * `REGR_SXX` makes the following computation after the elimination of null (`expr1`, `expr2`) pairs: 
    
        REGR_COUNT(expr1, expr2) * VAR_POP(expr2)
    

  * `REGR_SYY` makes the following computation after the elimination of null (`expr1`, `expr2`) pairs: 
    
        REGR_COUNT(expr1, expr2) * VAR_POP(expr1)
    

  * `REGR_SXY` makes the following computation after the elimination of null (`expr1`, `expr2`) pairs: 
    
        REGR_COUNT(expr1, expr2) * COVAR_POP(expr1, expr2)
    

The following examples are based on the sample tables `sh.sales` and
`sh.products`.

General Linear Regression Example

The following example provides a comparison of the various linear regression
functions used in their analytic form. The analytic form of these functions
can be useful when you want to use regression statistics for calculations such
as finding the salary predicted for each employee by the model. The sections
that follow on the individual linear regression functions contain examples of
the aggregate form of these functions.

    
    
    SELECT job_id, employee_id ID, salary,
    REGR_SLOPE(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary)
       OVER (PARTITION BY job_id) slope,
    REGR_INTERCEPT(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary)
       OVER (PARTITION BY job_id) intcpt,
    REGR_R2(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary)
       OVER (PARTITION BY job_id) rsqr,
    REGR_COUNT(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary)
       OVER (PARTITION BY job_id) count,
    REGR_AVGX(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary)
       OVER (PARTITION BY job_id) avgx,
    REGR_AVGY(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary)
       OVER (PARTITION BY job_id) avgy
       FROM employees
       WHERE department_id in (50, 80)
       ORDER BY job_id, employee_id;
    
    JOB_ID        ID     SALARY SLOPE    INTCPT  RSQR  COUNT       AVGX      AVGY
    ---------- ----- ---------- ----- --------- ----- ------ ---------- ---------
    SA_MAN       145      14000  .355 -1707.035  .832      5  12200.000  2626.589
    SA_MAN       146      13500  .355 -1707.035  .832      5  12200.000  2626.589
    SA_MAN       147      12000  .355 -1707.035  .832      5  12200.000  2626.589
    SA_MAN       148      11000  .355 -1707.035  .832      5  12200.000  2626.589
    SA_MAN       149      10500  .355 -1707.035  .832      5  12200.000  2626.589
    SA_REP       150      10000  .257   404.763  .647     29   8396.552  2561.244
    SA_REP       151       9500  .257   404.763  .647     29   8396.552  2561.244
    SA_REP       152       9000  .257   404.763  .647     29   8396.552  2561.244
    SA_REP       153       8000  .257   404.763  .647     29   8396.552  2561.244
    SA_REP       154       7500  .257   404.763  .647     29   8396.552  2561.244
    SA_REP       155       7000  .257   404.763  .647     29   8396.552  2561.244
    SA_REP       156      10000  .257   404.763  .647     29   8396.552  2561.244
    . . .

REGR_SLOPE and REGR_INTERCEPT Examples

The following example calculates the slope and regression of the linear
regression model for time employed (`SYSDATE` \- `hire_date`) and salary using
the sample table `hr.employees`. Results are grouped by `job_id`.

    
    
    SELECT job_id,
    REGR_SLOPE(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary) slope,
    REGR_INTERCEPT(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary) intercept
       FROM employees
       WHERE department_id in (50,80)
       GROUP BY job_id
       ORDER BY job_id;
    
    JOB_ID     SLOPE    INTERCEPT
    ---------- ----- ------------
    SA_MAN      .355 -1707.030762
    SA_REP      .257   404.767151
    SH_CLERK    .745   159.015293
    ST_CLERK    .904   134.409050
    ST_MAN      .479  -570.077291

REGR_COUNT Examples

The following example calculates the count of by `job_id` for time employed
(`SYSDATE` \- `hire_date`) and salary using the sample table `hr.employees`.
Results are grouped by `job_id`.

    
    
    SELECT job_id,
    REGR_COUNT(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary) count
       FROM employees
       WHERE department_id in (30, 50)
       GROUP BY job_id
       ORDER BY job_id, count;
    
    JOB_ID          COUNT
    ---------- ----------
    PU_CLERK            5
    PU_MAN              1
    SH_CLERK           20
    ST_CLERK           20
    ST_MAN              5

REGR_R2 Examples

The following example calculates the coefficient of determination the linear
regression of time employed (`SYSDATE` \- `hire_date`) and salary using the
sample table `hr.employees`:

    
    
    SELECT job_id,
    REGR_R2(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary) Regr_R2
       FROM employees
       WHERE department_id in (80, 50)
       GROUP by job_id
      ORDER BY job_id, Regr_R2;
    
    JOB_ID        REGR_R2
    ---------- ----------
    SA_MAN      .83244748
    SA_REP     .647007156
    SH_CLERK   .879799698
    ST_CLERK   .742808493
    ST_MAN      .69418508

REGR_AVGY and REGR_AVGX Examples

The following example calculates the average values for time employed
(`SYSDATE` \- `hire_date`) and salary using the sample table `hr.employees`.
Results are grouped by `job_id`:

    
    
    SELECT job_id,
    REGR_AVGY(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary) avgy,
    REGR_AVGX(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary) avgx
       FROM employees
       WHERE department_id in (30,50)
       GROUP BY job_id
       ORDER BY job_id, avgy, avgx;
    
    JOB_ID           AVGY       AVGX
    ---------- ---------- ----------
    PU_CLERK    2950.3778       2780
    PU_MAN      4026.5778      11000
    SH_CLERK    2773.0778       3215
    ST_CLERK    2872.7278       2785
    ST_MAN      3140.1778       7280

REGR_SXY, REGR_SXX, and REGR_SYY Examples

The following example calculates three types of diagnostic statistics for the
linear regression of time employed (`SYSDATE` \- `hire_date`) and salary using
the sample table `hr.employees`:

    
    
    SELECT job_id,
    REGR_SXY(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary) regr_sxy,
    REGR_SXX(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary) regr_sxx,
    REGR_SYY(SYSDATE-hire_date, salary) regr_syy
       FROM employees
       WHERE department_id in (80, 50)
       GROUP BY job_id
       ORDER BY job_id;
     
    JOB_ID       REGR_SXY    REGR_SXX   REGR_SYY
    ---------- ---------- ----------- ----------
    SA_MAN        3303500   9300000.0    1409642
    SA_REP     16819665.5  65489655.2 6676562.55
    SH_CLERK      4248650   5705500.0    3596039
    ST_CLERK      3531545   3905500.0 4299084.55
    ST_MAN        2180460   4548000.0  1505915.2


[← Previous](REGEXP_SUBSTR.md)

[Next →](REMAINDER.md)
