[Previous](RENAME.md) [Next](ROLLBACK.md) JavaScript must be enabled to
correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: MERGE to UPDATE](SQL-Statements-MERGE-to-UPDATE.md)
  3. REVOKE 

## REVOKE

Purpose

Use the `REVOKE` statement to:

  * Revoke system privileges from users and roles

  * Revoke roles from users, roles, and program units.

  * Revoke object privileges for a particular object from users and roles

  * Revoke schema privileges from users and roles

Note on Oracle Automatic Storage Management

A user authenticated `AS` `SYSASM` can use this statement to revoke the system
privileges `SYSASM`, `SYSOPER`, and `SYSDBA` from a user in the Oracle ASM
password file of the current node.

Note on Editionable Objects

A `REVOKE` operation to revoke object privileges on an editionable object
actualizes the object in the current edition. See [Oracle Database Development
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADFNS99922) for more information about editions and
editionable objects.

See Also:

  * [GRANT](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3) for information on granting system privileges and roles 

  * [Table 18-4](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BGBCIIEG "Column 1 names the object privilege. Column 2 describes the operations authorized by each object privilege.") for a listing of the object privileges for each type of object 

Prerequisites

To revoke a system privilege, you must have been granted the privilege with
the `ADMIN` `OPTION`. You can revoke any privilege if you have the `GRANT`
`ANY` `PRIVILEGE` system privilege.

To revoke a role from a user or another role, you must have been directly
granted the role with the `ADMIN` `OPTION` or you must have created the role.
You can revoke any role if you have the `GRANT` `ANY` `ROLE` system privilege.

To revoke a role from a program unit, you must be the user `SYS` or you must
be the schema owner of the program unit.

To revoke an object privilege, one of the following conditions must be met:

  * You must previously have granted the object privilege to the user or role.

  * You must have the `GRANT ANY OBJECT PRIVILEGE` system privilege. 

  * You must have the `GRANT` `ANY` `OBJECT` `PRIVILEGE` system privilege. In this case, you can revoke any object privilege that was granted by the object owner or on behalf of the owner by a user with the `GRANT` `ANY` `OBJECT` `PRIVILEGE`. However, you cannot revoke an object privilege that was granted by way of a `WITH` `GRANT` `OPTION` grant. 

  * You can revoke privileges on an object if you have the `GRANT` `ANY` object privilege. This does not apply to `SYS` objects. The `ANY` keyword in reference to a system privilege means that the user can perform the privilege on any objects owned by any user except for `SYS`. 

  * 

See Also:

"[Revoke Operations that Use GRANT ANY OBJECT PRIVILEGE:
Example](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-BAA6B957E866__I2133838)"

The `REVOKE` statement can revoke only privileges and roles that were
previously granted directly with a `GRANT` statement. You cannot use this
statement to revoke:

  * Privileges or roles not granted to the revokee 

  * Roles or object privileges granted through the operating system 

  * Privileges or roles granted to the revokee through roles 

To specify the `CONTAINER` clause, you must be connected to a multitenant
container database (CDB). To specify `CONTAINER` `=` `ALL`, the current
container must be the root.

Syntax

revoke::=

![Description of revoke.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/revoke.gif)  
[Description of the illustration revoke.eps](img_text/revoke.md)

([revoke_system_privileges::=](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-
BAA6B957E866__I2123663), [revoke_object_privileges::=](REVOKE.md#GUID-
BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-BAA6B957E866__I2123674),
[revoke_roles_from_programs::=](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-
BAA6B957E866__BGEFHDAG))

revoke_system_privileges::=

![Description of revoke_system_privileges.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/revoke_system_privileges.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
revoke_system_privileges.eps](img_text/revoke_system_privileges.md)

([revokee_clause::=](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-
BAA6B957E866__I2123686))

revoke_schema_privileges::=

  

![Description of revoke_schema_privileges.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/revoke_schema_privileges.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
revoke_schema_privileges.eps](img_text/revoke_schema_privileges.md)

  

([revokee_clause::=](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-
BAA6B957E866__I2123686))

revoke_object_privileges::=

![Description of revoke_object_privileges.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/revoke_object_privileges.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
revoke_object_privileges.eps](img_text/revoke_object_privileges.md)

([on_object_clause::=](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-
BAA6B957E866__I2123698), [revokee_clause::=](REVOKE.md#GUID-
BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-BAA6B957E866__I2123686))

revokee_clause::=

![Description of revokee_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/revokee_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
revokee_clause.eps](img_text/revokee_clause.md)

on_object_clause::=

![Description of on_object_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/on_object_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
on_object_clause.eps](img_text/on_object_clause.md)

revoke_roles_from_programs::=

![Description of revoke_roles_from_programs.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/revoke_roles_from_programs.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
revoke_roles_from_programs.eps](img_text/revoke_roles_from_programs.md)

program_unit::=

![Description of program_unit.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/program_unit.gif)  
[Description of the illustration program_unit.eps](img_text/program_unit.md)

Semantics

revoke_system_privileges

Use these clauses to revoke system privileges.

system_privilege

Specify the system privilege to be revoked. Refer to [Table
18-2](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BABEFFEE "Column 1
names system privileges grouped by database object. Column 2 describes the
operations authorized by the system privilege.") for a list of the system
privileges.

If you revoke a system privilege from a user, then the database removes the
privilege from the user's privilege domain. Effective immediately, the user
cannot exercise the privilege.

If you revoke a system privilege from a role, then the database removes the
privilege from the privilege domain of the role. Effective immediately, users
with the role enabled cannot exercise the privilege. Also, other users who
have been granted the role and subsequently enable the role cannot exercise
the privilege.

See Also:

"[Revoking a System Privilege from a User: Example](REVOKE.md#GUID-
BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-BAA6B957E866__I2126289)" and "[Revoking a System
Privilege from a Role: Example](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-
BAA6B957E866__I2126321)"

If you revoke a system privilege from `PUBLIC`, then the database removes the
privilege from the privilege domain of each user who has been granted the
privilege through `PUBLIC`. Effective immediately, such users can no longer
exercise the privilege. However, the privilege is not revoked from users who
have been granted the privilege directly or through roles.

Oracle Database provides a shortcut for specifying all system privileges at
once: Specify `ALL` `PRIVILEGES` to revoke all the system privileges listed in
[Table 18-2](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BABEFFEE
"Column 1 names system privileges grouped by database object. Column 2
describes the operations authorized by the system privilege.").

Restriction on Revoking System Privileges

A system privilege cannot appear more than once in the list of privileges to
be revoked.

role

Specify the role to be revoked.

If you revoke a role from a user, then the database makes the role unavailable
to the user. If the role is currently enabled for the user, then the user can
continue to exercise the privileges in the role's privilege domain as long as
it remains enabled. However, the user cannot subsequently enable the role.

If you revoke a role from another role, then the database removes the
privilege domain of the revoked role from the privilege domain of the revokee
role. Users who have been granted and have enabled the revokee role can
continue to exercise the privileges in the privilege domain of the revoked
role as long as the revokee role remains enabled. However, other users who
have been granted the revokee role and subsequently enable it cannot exercise
the privileges in the privilege domain of the revoked role.

See Also:

"[Revoking a Role from a User: Example](REVOKE.md#GUID-
BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-BAA6B957E866__I2126305)" and "[Revoking a Role from a
Role: Example](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-
BAA6B957E866__I2126337)"

If you revoke a role from `PUBLIC`, then the database makes the role
unavailable to all users who have been granted the role through `PUBLIC`. Any
user who has enabled the role can continue to exercise the privileges in its
privilege domain as long as it remains enabled. However, users cannot
subsequently enable the role. The role is not revoked from users who have been
granted the role directly or through other roles.

Restriction on Revoking System Roles

A system role cannot appear more than once in the list of roles to be revoked.
For information on the predefined roles, refer to [Oracle Database Security
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG4414).

revokee_clause

Use the `revokee_clause` to specify the users or roles from which the system
privilege, role, or object privilege is to be revoked.

PUBLIC

Specify `PUBLIC` to revoke the privileges or roles from all users.

revoke_schema_privileges

Use this clause to revoke schema privileges. You can revoke a schema level
privilege from any user or any role if you are a user who :

  * Owns the schema.

  * Has a schema level privilege `WITH ADMIN OPTION`. 

  * Has the `GRANT ANY SCHEMA PRIVILEGE` system privilege. If you specify `ALL PRIVILEGES` , all the schema level privileges in [Table 18-3](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__TABLE_FGK_Y41_M5B "Column 1 names the schema privilege. Column 2 describes the operations authorized by the schema privilege.") are revoked. 

revoke_object_privileges

Use these clauses to revoke object privileges.

object_privilege

Specify the object privilege to be revoked. The object privileges, categorized
by the type of object to which they apply, are described in [Table
18-4](GRANT.md#GUID-20B4E2C0-A7F8-4BC8-A5E8-BE61BDC41AC3__BGBCIIEG "Column 1
names the object privilege. Column 2 describes the operations authorized by
each object privilege.").

Note:

Each privilege authorizes some operation. By revoking a privilege, you prevent
the revokee from performing that operation. However, multiple users may grant
the same privilege to the same user, role, or `PUBLIC`. To remove the
privilege from the grantee's privilege domain, all grantors must revoke the
privilege. If even one grantor does not revoke the privilege, then the grantee
can still exercise the privilege by virtue of that grant.

If you revoke an object privilege from a user, then the database removes the
privilege from the user's privilege domain. Effective immediately, the user
cannot exercise the privilege.

  * If that user has granted that privilege to other users or roles, then the database also revokes the privilege from those other users or roles. 

  * If that user's schema contains a procedure, function, or package that contains SQL statements that exercise the privilege, then the procedure, function, or package can no longer be executed. 

  * If that user's schema contains a view on that object, then the database invalidates the view. 

  * If you revoke the `REFERENCES` object privilege from a user who has exercised the privilege to define referential integrity constraints, then you must specify the `CASCADE` `CONSTRAINTS` clause. 

If you revoke an object privilege from a role, then the database removes the
privilege from the privilege domain of the role. Effective immediately, users
with the role enabled cannot exercise the privilege. Other users who have been
granted the role cannot exercise the privilege after enabling the role.

If you revoke an object privilege from `PUBLIC`, then the database removes the
privilege from the privilege domain of each user who has been granted the
privilege through `PUBLIC`. Effective immediately, all such users are
restricted from exercising the privilege. However, the privilege is not
revoked from users who have been granted the privilege directly or through
roles.

ALL [PRIVILEGES]

Specify `ALL` to revoke all object privileges that you have granted to the
revokee. (The keyword `PRIVILEGES` is provided for semantic clarity and is
optional.)

If no privileges have been granted on the object, then the database takes no
action and does not return an error.

Restriction on Revoking Object Privileges

A privilege cannot appear more than once in the list of privileges to be
revoked. A user, a role, or `PUBLIC` cannot appear more than once in the
`FROM` clause.

See Also:

"[Revoking an Object Privilege from a User: Example](REVOKE.md#GUID-
BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-BAA6B957E866__I2126353)", "[Revoking Object Privileges
from PUBLIC: Example](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-
BAA6B957E866__I2126385)", and "[Revoking All Object Privileges from a User:
Example](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-BAA6B957E866__BGEGFBEJ)"

CASCADE CONSTRAINTS

This clause is relevant only if you revoke the `REFERENCES` privilege or `ALL`
[`PRIVILEGES`]. It drops any referential integrity constraints that the
revokee has defined using the `REFERENCES` privilege, which might have been
granted either explicitly or implicitly through a grant of `ALL`
[`PRIVILEGES`].

See Also:

"[Revoking an Object Privilege with CASCADE CONSTRAINTS:
Example](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-BAA6B957E866__I2126427)"

FORCE

Specify `FORCE` to revoke the `EXECUTE` object privilege on user-defined type
objects with table or type dependencies. You must use `FORCE` to revoke the
`EXECUTE` object privilege on user-defined type objects with table
dependencies.

If you specify `FORCE`, then all privileges are revoked, all dependent objects
are marked `INVALID`, data in dependent tables becomes inaccessible, and all
dependent function-based indexes are marked `UNUSABLE`. Regranting the
necessary type privilege will revalidate the table.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Concepts](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=CNCPT1859) for detailed information about type
dependencies and user-defined object privileges

on_object_clause

The `on_object_clause` identifies the objects on which privileges are to be
revoked.

object

Specify the object on which the object privileges are to be revoked. This
object can be:

  * A table, view, sequence, procedure, stored function, package, or materialized view

  * A synonym for a table, view, sequence, procedure, stored function, package, materialized view, or user-defined type

  * A library, indextype, or user-defined operator

If you do not qualify object with `schema`, then the database assumes the
object is in your own schema.

See Also:

"[Revoking an Object Privilege on a Sequence from a User:
Example](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-BAA6B957E866__I2126411)"

If you revoke the `READ` or `SELECT` object privilege on the containing table
or materialized view of a materialized view, whether the privilege was granted
with or without the `GRANT` `OPTION`, then the database invalidates the
materialized view.

If you revoke the `READ` or `SELECT` object privilege on any of the master
tables of a materialized view, whether the privilege was granted with or
without the `GRANT` `OPTION`, then the database invalidates both the
materialized view and its containing table or materialized view.

ON USER

Specify the database user you want to revoke privileges from.

See Also:

"[Revoking an Object Privilege on a User from a User:
Example](REVOKE.md#GUID-BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-BAA6B957E866__BGEGHAEG)"

ON DIRECTORY

Specify the name of the directory object on which privileges are to be
revoked. You cannot qualify `directory_name` with a schema name.

See Also:

[CREATE DIRECTORY](CREATE-
DIRECTORY.md#GUID-8E9C569A-1B06-42C4-9586-0EF83437001A) and "[Revoking an
Object Privilege on a Directory from a User: Example](REVOKE.md#GUID-
BAAD2331-40A5-4366-86CA-BAA6B957E866__I2126438)"

ON EDITION

Specify the name of the edition on which the `USE` object privilege is to be
revoked. You cannot qualify `edition_name` with a schema name.

ON MINING MODEL

Specify the name of the mining model on which privileges are to be revoked. If
you do not qualify `mining_model_name` with `schema`, then the database
assumes that the mining model is in your own schema.

ON JAVA SOURCE | RESOURCE

Specify the name of the Java source or resource schema object on which
privileges are to be revoked. If you do not qualify `object` with `schema`,
then the database assumes that the object is in your own schema.

ON SQL TRANSLATION PROFILE

Specify the name of the SQL translation profile on which privileges are to be
revoked. If you do not qualify `profile` with `schema`, then the database
assumes the profile is in your own schema.

revoke_roles_from_programs

Use this clause to revoke code based access control (CBAC) roles from program
units.

role

Specify the role you want to revoke.

ALL

Specify `ALL` to revoke all roles that are granted to the program unit.

program_unit

Specify the program unit from which the role is to be revoked. You can specify
a PL/SQL function, procedure, or package. If you do not specify `schema`, then
Oracle Database assumes the function, procedure, or package is in your own
schema.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Security
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG977) for more information on revoking CBAC roles
from program units

CONTAINER Clause

If the current container is a pluggable database (PDB):

  * Specify `CONTAINER` `=` `CURRENT` to revoke a locally granted system privilege, object privilege, or role from a local user, common user, local role, or common role. The privilege or role is revoked from the user or role only in the current PDB. This clause does not revoke privileges granted with `CONTAINER` `=` `ALL`. 

If the current container is the root:

  * Specify `CONTAINER` `=` `CURRENT` to revoke a locally granted system privilege, object privilege, or role from a common user or common role. The privilege or role is revoked from the user or role only in the root. This clause does not revoke privileges granted with `CONTAINER` `=` `ALL`. 

  * Specify `CONTAINER` `=` `ALL` to revoke a commonly granted system privilege, object privilege on a common object, or role from a common user or common role. The privilege or role is revoked from the user or role across the entire CDB. This clause can revoke only a privilege or role granted with `CONTAINER` `=` `ALL` from the specified common user or common role. This clause does not revoke privileges granted locally with `CONTAINER` `=` `CURRENT`. However, any locally granted privileges that depend on the commonly granted privilege being revoked are also revoked. 

If you omit this clause, then `CONTAINER` `=` `CURRENT` is the default.

Examples

Revoking a System Privilege from a User: Example

The following statement revokes the `DROP` `ANY` `TABLE` system privilege from
the users `hr` and `oe`:

    
    
    REVOKE DROP ANY TABLE 
        FROM hr, oe; 
    

The users `hr` and `oe` can no longer drop tables in schemas other than their
own.

Revoking a Role from a User: Example

The following statement revokes the role `dw_manager` from the user `sh`:

    
    
    REVOKE dw_manager 
        FROM sh; 
    

The user `sh` can no longer enable the `dw_manager` role.

Revoking a System Privilege from a Role: Example

The following statement revokes the `CREATE` `TABLESPACE` system privilege
from the `dw_manager` role:

    
    
    REVOKE CREATE TABLESPACE 
       FROM dw_manager; 
    

Enabling the `dw_manager` role no longer allows users to create tablespaces.

Revoking a Role from a Role: Example

To revoke the role `dw_user` from the role `dw_manager`, issue the following
statement:

    
    
    REVOKE dw_user
      FROM dw_manager; 
    

The `dw_user` role privileges are no longer granted to `dw_manager`.

Revoking an Object Privilege from a User: Example

You can grant `DELETE`, `INSERT`, `READ`, `SELECT`, and `UPDATE` privileges on
the table `orders` to the user `hr` with the following statement:

    
    
    GRANT ALL 
       ON orders TO hr; 
    

To revoke the `DELETE` privilege on `orders` from `hr`, issue the following
statement:

    
    
    REVOKE DELETE 
       ON orders FROM hr; 

Revoking All Object Privileges from a User: Example

To revoke the remaining privileges on `orders` that you granted to `hr`, issue
the following statement:

    
    
    REVOKE ALL 
       ON orders FROM hr; 

Revoking Object Privileges from PUBLIC: Example

You can grant `SELECT` and `UPDATE` privileges on the view `emp_details_view`
to all users by granting the privileges to the role `PUBLIC`:

    
    
    GRANT SELECT, UPDATE 
        ON emp_details_view TO public; 
    

The following statement revokes `UPDATE` privilege on `emp_details_view` from
all users:

    
    
    REVOKE UPDATE 
        ON emp_details_view FROM public;
    

Users can no longer update the `emp_details_view` view, although users can
still query it. However, if you have also granted the `UPDATE` privilege on
`emp_details_view` to any users, either directly or through roles, then these
users retain the privilege.

Revoking an Object Privilege on a User from a User: Example

You can grant the user `hr` the `INHERIT` `PRIVILEGES` privilege on user `sh`
with the following statement:

    
    
    GRANT INHERIT PRIVILEGES ON USER sh TO hr;
    

To revoke the `INHERIT` `PRIVILEGES` privilege on user `sh` from user `hr`,
issue the following statement:

    
    
    REVOKE INHERIT PRIVILEGES ON USER sh FROM hr;

Revoking an Object Privilege on a Sequence from a User: Example

You can grant the user `oe` the `SELECT` privilege on the `departments_seq`
sequence in the schema `hr` with the following statement:

    
    
    GRANT SELECT 
        ON hr.departments_seq TO oe; 
    

To revoke the `SELECT` privilege on `departments_seq` from `oe`, issue the
following statement:

    
    
    REVOKE SELECT 
        ON hr.departments_seq FROM oe; 
    

However, if the user `hr` has also granted `SELECT` privilege on `departments`
to `sh`, then `sh` can still use `departments` by virtue of `hr`'s grant.

Revoking an Object Privilege with CASCADE CONSTRAINTS: Example

You can grant to `oe` the privileges `REFERENCES` and `UPDATE` on the
`employees` table in the schema `hr` with the following statement:

    
    
    GRANT REFERENCES, UPDATE 
        ON hr.employees TO oe; 
    

The user `oe` can exercise the `REFERENCES` privilege to define a constraint
in his or her own `dependent` table that refers to the `employees` table in
the schema `hr`:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE dependent 
    (dependno   NUMBER, 
     dependname VARCHAR2(10), 
     employee   NUMBER                   
        CONSTRAINT in_emp REFERENCES hr.employees(employee_id) ); 
    

You can revoke the `REFERENCES` privilege on `hr.employees` from `oe` by
issuing the following statement that contains the `CASCADE` `CONSTRAINTS`
clause:

    
    
    REVOKE REFERENCES 
        ON hr.employees 
        FROM oe 
        CASCADE CONSTRAINTS; 
    

Revoking `oe`'s `REFERENCES` privilege on `hr.employees` causes Oracle
Database to drop the `in_emp` constraint, because `oe` required the privilege
to define the constraint.

However, if `oe` has also been granted the `REFERENCES` privilege on
`hr.employees` by a user other than you, then the database does not drop the
constraint. `oe` still has the privilege necessary for the constraint by
virtue of the other user's grant.

Revoking an Object Privilege on a Directory from a User: Example

You can revoke the `READ` object privilege on directory `bfile_dir` from `hr`
by issuing the following statement:

    
    
    REVOKE READ ON DIRECTORY bfile_dir FROM hr;

Revoke Operations that Use GRANT ANY OBJECT PRIVILEGE: Example

Suppose that the database administrator has granted `GRANT` `ANY` `OBJECT`
`PRIVILEGE` to user `sh`. Now suppose that user `hr` grants the update
privilege on the `employees` table to `oe`:

    
    
    CONNECT hr
    GRANT UPDATE ON employees TO oe WITH GRANT OPTION;
    

This grant gives user `oe` the right to pass the object privilege along to
another user:

    
    
    CONNECT oe
    GRANT UPDATE ON hr.employees TO pm;
    

User `sh`, who has the `GRANT` `ANY` `OBJECT` `PRIVILEGE`, can now act on
behalf of user `hr` and revoke the update privilege from user `oe`, because
`oe` was granted the privilege by `hr`:

    
    
    CONNECT sh
    REVOKE UPDATE ON hr.employees FROM oe;
    

User `sh` cannot revoke the update privilege from user `pm` explicitly,
because `pm` received the grant neither from the object owner (`hr`), nor from
`sh`, nor from another user with `GRANT` `ANY` `OBJECT` `PRIVILEGE`, but from
user `oe`. However, the preceding statement cascades, removing all privileges
that depend on the one revoked. Therefore the object privilege is implicitly
revoked from `pm` as well.


[← Previous](RENAME.md)

[Next →](ROLLBACK.md)
