[Previous](ROWID-Pseudocolumn.md) [Next](XMLDATA-Pseudocolumn.md)
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Pseudocolumns](Pseudocolumns.md)
  3. ROWNUM Pseudocolumn 

## ROWNUM Pseudocolumn

Note:

  * The `ROW_NUMBER` built-in SQL function provides superior support for ordering the results of a query. Refer to [ROW_NUMBER](ROW_NUMBER.md#GUID-D5A157F8-0F53-45BD-BF8C-AE79B1DB8C41) for more information. 

  * The `row_limiting_clause` of the `SELECT` statement provides superior support for limiting the number of rows returned by a query. Refer to [row_limiting_clause](SELECT.md#GUID-CFA006CA-6FF1-4972-821E-6996142A51C6__BABHFGAA) for more information. 

For each row returned by a query, the `ROWNUM` pseudocolumn returns a number
indicating the order in which Oracle selects the row from a table or set of
joined rows. The first row selected has a `ROWNUM` of 1, the second has 2, and
so on.

You can use `ROWNUM` to limit the number of rows returned by a query, as in
this example:

    
    
    SELECT *
      FROM employees
      WHERE ROWNUM < 11;
    

If an `ORDER` `BY` clause follows `ROWNUM` in the same query, then the rows
will be reordered by the `ORDER` `BY` clause. The results can vary depending
on the way the rows are accessed. For example, if the `ORDER` `BY` clause
causes Oracle to use an index to access the data, then Oracle may retrieve the
rows in a different order than without the index. Therefore, the following
statement does not necessarily return the same rows as the preceding example:

    
    
    SELECT *
      FROM employees
      WHERE ROWNUM < 11
      ORDER BY last_name;
    

If you embed the `ORDER` `BY` clause in a subquery and place the `ROWNUM`
condition in the top-level query, then you can force the `ROWNUM` condition to
be applied after the ordering of the rows. For example, the following query
returns the employees with the 10 smallest employee numbers. This is sometimes
referred to as top-N reporting:

    
    
    SELECT *
      FROM (SELECT * FROM employees ORDER BY employee_id)
      WHERE ROWNUM < 11;
    

In the preceding example, the `ROWNUM` values are those of the top-level
`SELECT` statement, so they are generated after the rows have already been
ordered by `employee_id` in the subquery.

Conditions testing for `ROWNUM` values greater than a positive integer are
always false. For example, this query returns no rows:

    
    
    SELECT *
      FROM employees
      WHERE ROWNUM > 1;
    

The first row fetched is assigned a `ROWNUM` of 1 and makes the condition
false. The second row to be fetched is now the first row and is also assigned
a `ROWNUM` of 1 and makes the condition false. All rows subsequently fail to
satisfy the condition, so no rows are returned.

You can also use `ROWNUM` to assign unique values to each row of a table, as
in this example:

    
    
    UPDATE my_table
      SET column1 = ROWNUM;
    

Refer to the function [ROW_NUMBER](ROW_NUMBER.md#GUID-D5A157F8-0F53-45BD-
BF8C-AE79B1DB8C41) for an alternative method of assigning unique numbers to
rows.

Note:

Using `ROWNUM` in a query can affect view optimization.


[← Previous](ROWID-Pseudocolumn.md)

[Next →](XMLDATA-Pseudocolumn.md)
