[Previous](Hierarchical-Query-Pseudocolumns.md) [Next](Version-Query-
Pseudocolumns.md) JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this
content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Pseudocolumns](Pseudocolumns.md)
  3. Sequence Pseudocolumns 

## Sequence Pseudocolumns

A sequence is a schema object that can generate unique sequential values.
These values are often used for primary and unique keys. You can refer to
sequence values in SQL statements with these pseudocolumns:

  * `CURRVAL`: Returns the current value of a sequence 

  * `NEXTVAL`: Increments the sequence and returns the next value 

You must qualify `CURRVAL` and `NEXTVAL` with the name of the sequence:

    
    
    sequence.CURRVAL
    sequence.NEXTVAL
    

To refer to the current or next value of a sequence in the schema of another
user, you must have been granted either `SELECT` object privilege on the
sequence or `SELECT` `ANY` `SEQUENCE` system privilege, and you must qualify
the sequence with the schema containing it:

    
    
    schema.sequence.CURRVAL
    schema.sequence.NEXTVAL
    

To refer to the value of a sequence on a remote database, you must qualify the
sequence with a complete or partial name of a database link:

    
    
    schema.sequence.CURRVAL@dblink
    schema.sequence.NEXTVAL@dblink
    

A sequence can be accessed by many users concurrently with no waiting or
locking.

See Also:

[References to Objects in Remote Databases](Syntax-for-Schema-Objects-and-
Parts-in-SQL-Statements.md#GUID-61D0B206-A5EA-473F-AD04-7067D6E3914C) for
more information on referring to database links

### Where to Use Sequence Values

You can use `CURRVAL` and `NEXTVAL` in the following locations:

  * The select list of a `SELECT` statement that is not contained in a subquery, materialized view, or view 

  * The select list of a subquery in an `INSERT` statement 

  * The `VALUES` clause of an `INSERT` statement 

  * The `SET` clause of an `UPDATE` statement 

Restrictions on Sequence Values

You cannot use `CURRVAL` and `NEXTVAL` in the following constructs:

  * A subquery in a `DELETE`, `SELECT`, or `UPDATE` statement 

  * A query of a view or of a materialized view

  * A `SELECT` statement with the `DISTINCT` operator 

  * A `SELECT` statement with a `GROUP` `BY` clause or `ORDER` `BY` clause 

  * A `SELECT` statement that is combined with another `SELECT` statement with the `UNION`, `INTERSECT`, or `MINUS` set operator 

  * The `WHERE` clause of a `SELECT` statement 

  * The condition of a `CHECK` constraint 

Within a single SQL statement that uses `CURRVAL` or `NEXTVAL`, all referenced
`LONG` columns, updated tables, and locked tables must be located on the same
database.

### How to Use Sequence Values

When you create a sequence, you can define its initial value and the increment
between its values. The first reference to `NEXTVAL` returns the initial value
of the sequence. Subsequent references to `NEXTVAL` increment the sequence
value by the defined increment and return the new value. Any reference to
`CURRVAL` always returns the current value of the sequence, which is the value
returned by the last reference to `NEXTVAL`.

Before you use `CURRVAL` for a sequence in your session, you must first
initialize the sequence with `NEXTVAL`. Refer to [CREATE SEQUENCE](CREATE-
SEQUENCE.md#GUID-E9C78A8C-615A-4757-B2A8-5E6EFB130571) for information on
sequences.

Within a single SQL statement containing a reference to `NEXTVAL`, Oracle
increments the sequence once:

  * For each row returned by the outer query block of a `SELECT` statement. Such a query block can appear in the following places: 

    * A top-level `SELECT` statement 

    * An `INSERT` ... `SELECT` statement (either single-table or multitable). For a multitable insert, the reference to `NEXTVAL` must appear in the `VALUES` clause, and the sequence is updated once for each row returned by the subquery, even though `NEXTVAL` may be referenced in multiple branches of the multitable insert. 

    * A `CREATE` `TABLE` ... `AS` `SELECT` statement 

    * A `CREATE` `MATERIALIZED` `VIEW` ... `AS` `SELECT` statement 

  * For each row updated in an `UPDATE` statement 

  * For each `INSERT` statement containing a `VALUES` clause 

  * For each `INSERT` ... [`ALL` | `FIRST`] statement (multitable insert). A multitable insert is considered a single SQL statement. Therefore, a reference to the `NEXTVAL` of a sequence will increase the sequence only once for each input record coming from the `SELECT` portion of the statement. If `NEXTVAL` is specified more than once in any part of the `INSERT` ... [`ALL` | `FIRST` ] statement, then the value will be the same for all insert branches, regardless of how often a given record might be inserted. 

  * For each row merged by a `MERGE` statement. The reference to `NEXTVAL` can appear in the `merge_insert_clause` or the `merge_update_clause` or both. The `NEXTVALUE` value is incremented for each row updated and for each row inserted, even if the sequence number is not actually used in the update or insert operation. If `NEXTVAL` is specified more than once in any of these locations, then the sequence is incremented once for each row and returns the same value for all occurrences of `NEXTVAL` for that row. 

  * For each input row in a multitable `INSERT` `ALL` statement. `NEXTVAL` is incremented once for each row returned by the subquery, regardless of how many occurrences of the `insert_into_clause` map to each row. 

If any of these locations contains more than one reference to `NEXTVAL`, then
Oracle increments the sequence once and returns the same value for all
occurrences of `NEXTVAL`.

If any of these locations contains references to both `CURRVAL` and `NEXTVAL`,
then Oracle increments the sequence and returns the same value for both
`CURRVAL` and `NEXTVAL`.

Finding the next value of a sequence: Example

This example selects the next value of the employee sequence in the sample
schema `hr`:

    
    
    SELECT employees_seq.nextval 
      FROM DUAL;

Inserting sequence values into a table: Example

This example increments the employee sequence and uses its value for a new
employee inserted into the sample table `hr.employees`:

    
    
    INSERT INTO employees
      VALUES (employees_seq.nextval, 'John', 'Doe', 'jdoe', '555-1212',
              TO_DATE(SYSDATE), 'PU_CLERK', 2500, null, null, 30);

Reusing the current value of a sequence: Example

This example adds a new order with the next order number to the master order
table. It then adds suborders with this number to the detail order table:

    
    
    INSERT INTO orders (order_id, order_date, customer_id)
      VALUES (orders_seq.nextval, TO_DATE(SYSDATE), 106);
    
    INSERT INTO order_items (order_id, line_item_id, product_id)
      VALUES (orders_seq.currval, 1, 2359);
    
    INSERT INTO order_items (order_id, line_item_id, product_id)
      VALUES (orders_seq.currval, 2, 3290);
    
    INSERT INTO order_items (order_id, line_item_id, product_id)
      VALUES (orders_seq.currval, 3, 2381);


[← Previous](Sequence-Pseudocolumns.md)

[Next →](Version-Query-Pseudocolumns.md)
