[Previous](SELECT.md) [Next](SET-ROLE.md) JavaScript must be enabled to
correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: MERGE to UPDATE](SQL-Statements-MERGE-to-UPDATE.md)
  3. SET CONSTRAINT[S] 

## SET CONSTRAINT[S]

Purpose

Use the `SET` `CONSTRAINTS` statement to specify, for a particular
transaction, whether a deferrable constraint is checked following each DML
statement (`IMMEDIATE`) or when the transaction is committed (`DEFERRED`). You
can use this statement to set the mode for a list of constraint names or for
`ALL` constraints.

The `SET` `CONSTRAINTS` mode lasts for the duration of the transaction or
until another `SET` `CONSTRAINTS` statement resets the mode.

Note:

You can also use an `ALTER` `SESSION` statement with the `SET` `CONSTRAINTS`
clause to set all deferrable constraints. This is equivalent to making issuing
a `SET` `CONSTRAINTS` statement at the start of each transaction in the
current session.

You cannot specify this statement inside of a trigger definition.

`SET` `CONSTRAINTS` can be a distributed statement. Existing database links
that have transactions in process are notified when a `SET` `CONSTRAINTS`
`ALL` statement is issued, and new links are notified that it was issued as
soon as they start a transaction.

Prerequisites

To specify when a deferrable constraint is checked, you must have the `READ`
or `SELECT` privilege on the table to which the constraint is applied unless
the table is in your schema.

Syntax

set_constraints::=

![Description of set_constraints.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/set_constraints.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
set_constraints.eps](img_text/set_constraints.md)

Semantics

constraint

Specify the name of one or more integrity constraints.

ALL

Specify `ALL` to set all deferrable constraints for this transaction.

IMMEDIATE

Specify `IMMEDIATE` to cause the specified constraints to be checked
immediately on execution of each constrained DML statement. Oracle Database
first checks any constraints that were deferred earlier in the transaction and
then continues immediately checking constraints of any further statements in
that transaction, as long as all the checked constraints are consistent and no
other `SET` `CONSTRAINTS` statement is issued. If any constraint fails the
check, then an error is signaled. At that point, a `COMMIT` statement causes
the whole transaction to undo.

Making constraints immediate at the end of a transaction is a way of checking
whether `COMMIT` can succeed. You can avoid unexpected rollbacks by setting
constraints to `IMMEDIATE` as the last statement in a transaction. If any
constraint fails the check, you can then correct the error before committing
the transaction.

DEFERRED

Specify `DEFERRED` to indicate that the conditions specified by the deferrable
constraint are checked when the transaction is committed.

Note:

You can verify the success of deferrable constraints prior to committing them
by issuing a `SET` `CONSTRAINTS` `ALL` `IMMEDIATE` statement.

Examples

Setting Constraints: Examples

The following statement sets all deferrable constraints in this transaction to
be checked immediately following each DML statement:

    
    
    SET CONSTRAINTS ALL IMMEDIATE;
    

The following statement checks three deferred constraints when the transaction
is committed. This example fails if the constraints were specified to be `NOT`
`DEFERRABLE`.

    
    
    SET CONSTRAINTS emp_job_nn, emp_salary_min,
       hr.jhist_dept_fk@remote DEFERRED;


[← Previous](SELECT.md)

[Next →](SET-ROLE.md)
