[Previous](SET-CONSTRAINTS.md) [Next](SET-TRANSACTION.md) JavaScript must
be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: MERGE to UPDATE](SQL-Statements-MERGE-to-UPDATE.md)
  3. SET ROLE 

## SET ROLE

Purpose

When a user logs on to Oracle Database, the database enables all privileges
granted explicitly to the user and all privileges in the user's default roles.
During the session, the user or an application can use the `SET` `ROLE`
statement any number of times to enable or disable the roles currently enabled
for the session.

You cannot enable more than 148 user-defined roles at one time.

Note:

  * For most roles, you cannot enable or disable a role unless it was granted to you either directly or through other roles. However, a secure application role can be granted and enabled by its associated PL/SQL package. See the `CREATE` `ROLE` semantics for [USING package](CREATE-ROLE.md#GUID-B2252DC5-5AE7-49B7-9048-98062993E450__BABCJFBJ) and [Oracle Database Security Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG005) for information about secure application roles. 

  * `SET` `ROLE` succeeds only if there are no definer's rights units on the call stack. If at least one DR unit is on the call stack, then issuing the `SET` `ROLE` command causes `ORA`-`06565`. See [Oracle Database PL/SQL Language Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=LNPLS00809) for more information about definer's rights units. 

  * To run the `SET` `ROLE` command from PL/SQL, you must use dynamic SQL, preferably the `EXECUTE` `IMMEDIATE` statement. See [Oracle Database PL/SQL Language Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=LNPLS01115) for more information about this statement. 

You can see which roles are currently enabled by examining the `SESSION_ROLES`
data dictionary view.

See Also:

  * [CREATE ROLE](CREATE-ROLE.md#GUID-B2252DC5-5AE7-49B7-9048-98062993E450) for information on creating roles 

  * [ALTER USER](ALTER-USER.md#GUID-9FCD038D-8193-4241-85CD-2F4723B27D44) for information on changing a user's default roles 

  * [Oracle Database Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=REFRN29028) for information on the `SESSION_ROLES` session parameter 

Prerequisites

You must already have been granted the roles that you name in the `SET` `ROLE`
statement.

Syntax

set_role::=

![Description of set_role.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/set_role.gif)  
[Description of the illustration set_role.eps](img_text/set_role.md)

Semantics

role

Specify one or more roles to be enabled for the current session. All roles not
specified are disabled for the current session or until another `SET` `ROLE`
statement is issued in the current session.

``In the `IDENTIFIED` `BY` `password` clause, specify the password for a role.
If the role has a password, then you must specify the password to enable the
role.

Restriction on Setting Roles

You cannot specify a role identified globally. Global roles are enabled by
default at login, and cannot be reenabled later.

IDENTIFIED BY

You can set the password to a maximum length of 1024 bytes.

ALL Clause

Specify `ALL` to enable all roles granted to you for the current session
except those optionally listed in the `EXCEPT` clause.

Roles listed in the `EXCEPT` clause must be roles granted directly to you.
They cannot be roles granted to you through other roles.

If you list a role in the `EXCEPT` clause that has been granted to you both
directly and through another role, then the role remains enabled by virtue of
the role to which it has been granted.

Restrictions on the ALL Clause

The following restrictions apply to the `ALL` clause:

  * You cannot use this clause to enable roles with passwords that have been granted directly to you.

  * You cannot use this clause to enable a secure application role, which is a role that can be enabled only by applications using an authorized package. Refer to [Oracle Database Security Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=DBSEG30399) for information on creating a secure application role and[ Oracle Database 2 Day + Security Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=TDPSG30032) for a tutorial. 

NONE

Specify `NONE` to disable all roles for the current session, including the
`DEFAULT` role.

Examples

Setting Roles: Examples

To enable the role `dw_manager` identified by a password for your current
session, issue the following statement:

    
    
    SET ROLE dw_manager IDENTIFIED BY password; 
    

To enable all roles granted to you for the current session, issue the
following statement:

    
    
    SET ROLE ALL; 
    

To enable all roles granted to you except `dw_manager`, issue the following
statement:

    
    
    SET ROLE ALL EXCEPT dw_manager;
    

To disable all roles granted to you for the current session, issue the
following statement:

    
    
    SET ROLE NONE; 


[← Previous](SET-CONSTRAINTS.md)

[Next →](SET-TRANSACTION.md)
