[Previous](SET-ROLE.md) [Next](TRUNCATE-CLUSTER.md) JavaScript must be
enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: MERGE to UPDATE](SQL-Statements-MERGE-to-UPDATE.md)
  3. SET TRANSACTION 

## SET TRANSACTION

Purpose

Use the `SET` `TRANSACTION` statement to establish the current transaction as
read-only or read/write, establish its isolation level, assign it to a
specified rollback segment, or assign a name to the transaction.

A transaction implicitly begins with any operation that obtains a TX lock:

  * When a statement that modifies data is issued

  * When a `SELECT` ... `FOR` `UPDATE` statement is issued 

  * When a transaction is explicitly started with a `SET` `TRANSACTION` statement or the `DBMS_TRANSACTION` package 

Issuing either a `COMMIT` or `ROLLBACK` statement explicitly ends the current
transaction.

The operations performed by a `SET` `TRANSACTION` statement affect only your
current transaction, not other users or other transactions. Your transaction
ends whenever you issue a `COMMIT` or `ROLLBACK` statement. Oracle Database
implicitly commits the current transaction before and after executing a data
definition language (DDL) statement.

See Also:

[COMMIT](COMMIT.md#GUID-6CD5C9A7-54B9-4FA2-BA3C-D6B4492B9EE2) and
[ROLLBACK](ROLLBACK.md#GUID-94551F0C-A47F-43DE-BC68-9B1C1ED38C93)

Prerequisites

If you use a `SET` `TRANSACTION` statement, then it must be the first
statement in your transaction. However, a transaction need not have a `SET`
`TRANSACTION` statement.

Syntax

set_transaction::=

![Description of set_transaction.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/set_transaction.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
set_transaction.eps](img_text/set_transaction.md)

Semantics

READ ONLY

The `READ` `ONLY` clause establishes the current transaction as a read-only
transaction. This clause established transaction-level read consistency.

All subsequent queries in that transaction see only changes that were
committed before the transaction began. Read-only transactions are useful for
reports that run multiple queries against one or more tables while other users
update these same tables.

This clause is not supported for the user `SYS`. Queries by `SYS` will return
changes made during the transaction even if `SYS` has set the transaction to
be `READ` `ONLY`.

Restriction on Read-only Transactions

Only the following statements are permitted in a read-only transaction:

  * Subqueriesâ`SELECT` statements without the `for_update_clause`

  * `LOCK` `TABLE`

  * `SET` `ROLE`

  * `ALTER` `SESSION`

  * `ALTER` `SYSTEM`

READ WRITE

Specify `READ` `WRITE` to establish the current transaction as a read/write
transaction. This clause establishes statement-level read consistency, which
is the default.

Restriction on Read/Write Transactions

You cannot toggle between transaction-level and statement-level read
consistency in the same transaction.

ISOLATION LEVEL Clause

  * The `SERIALIZABLE` setting specifies serializable transaction isolation mode as defined in the SQL standard. If a serializable transaction contains data manipulation language (DML) that attempts to update any resource that may have been updated in a transaction uncommitted at the start of the serializable transaction, then the DML statement fails. 

  * The `READ` `COMMITTED` setting is the default Oracle Database transaction behavior. If the transaction contains DML that requires row locks held by another transaction, then the DML statement waits until the row locks are released. 

USE ROLLBACK SEGMENT Clause

Note:

This clause is relevant and valid only if you are using rollback segments for
undo. Oracle strongly recommends that you use automatic undo management to
handle undo space. If you follow this recommendation and run your database in
automatic undo mode, then Oracle Database ignores this clause.

Specify `USE ROLLBACK SEGMENT` to assign the current transaction to the
specified rollback segment. This clause also implicitly establishes the
transaction as a read/write transaction.

Parallel DML requires more than one rollback segment. Therefore, if your
transaction contains parallel DML operations, then the database ignores this
clause.

NAME Clause

Use the `NAME` clause to assign a name to the current transaction. This clause
is especially useful in distributed database environments when you must
identify and resolve in-doubt transactions. The `string` value is limited to
255 bytes.

If you specify a name for a distributed transaction, then when the transaction
commits, the name becomes the commit comment, overriding any comment specified
explicitly in the `COMMIT` statement.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Concepts](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=CNCPT1122) for more information about transaction naming

Examples

Setting Transactions: Examples

The following statements could be run at midnight of the last day of every
month to count the products and quantities on hand in the Toronto warehouse in
the sample Order Entry (`oe`) schema. This report would not be affected by any
other user who might be adding or removing inventory to a different warehouse.

    
    
    COMMIT; 
    
    SET TRANSACTION READ ONLY NAME 'Toronto'; 
    
    SELECT product_id, quantity_on_hand FROM inventories
       WHERE warehouse_id = 5
       ORDER BY product_id; 
    
    COMMIT; 
    

The first `COMMIT` statement ensures that `SET` `TRANSACTION` is the first
statement in the transaction. The last `COMMIT` statement does not actually
make permanent any changes to the database. It simply ends the read-only
transaction.


[← Previous](SET-ROLE.md)

[Next →](TRUNCATE-CLUSTER.md)
