[Previous](History-of-SQL.md) [Next](Using-Enterprise-Manager.md)
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Introduction to Oracle SQL](Introduction-to-Oracle-SQL.md)
  3. SQL Standards 

## SQL Standards

Oracle strives to comply with industry-accepted standards and participates
actively in SQL standards committees. Industry-accepted committees are the
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and the International
Organization for Standardization (ISO), which is affiliated with the
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). Both ANSI and the ISO/IEC
have accepted SQL as the standard language for relational databases. When a
new SQL standard is simultaneously published by these organizations, the names
of the standards conform to conventions used by the organization, but the
standards are technically identical.

See Also:

[Oracle and Standard SQL](Oracle-and-Standard-
SQL.md#GUID-330DEBBB-006E-4B35-A516-5C0AEFFE06B9) for a detailed description
of Oracle Database conformance to the SQL standard

### How SQL Works

The strengths of SQL provide benefits for all types of users, including
application programmers, database administrators, managers, and end users.
Technically speaking, SQL is a data sublanguage. The purpose of SQL is to
provide an interface to a relational database such as Oracle Database, and all
SQL statements are instructions to the database. In this SQL differs from
general-purpose programming languages like C and BASIC. Among the features of
SQL are the following:

  * It processes sets of data as groups rather than as individual units.

  * It provides automatic navigation to the data.

  * It uses statements that are complex and powerful individually, and that therefore stand alone. Flow-control statements, such as begin-end, if-then-else, loops, and exception condition handling, were initially not part of SQL and the SQL standard, but they can now be found in ISO/IEC 9075-4 - Persistent Stored Modules (SQL/PSM). The PL/SQL extension to Oracle SQL is similar to PSM.

SQL lets you work with data at the logical level. You need to be concerned
with the implementation details only when you want to manipulate the data. For
example, to retrieve a set of rows from a table, you define a condition used
to filter the rows. All rows satisfying the condition are retrieved in a
single step and can be passed as a unit to the user, to another SQL statement,
or to an application. You need not deal with the rows one by one, nor do you
have to worry about how they are physically stored or retrieved. All SQL
statements use the optimizer, a part of Oracle Database that determines the
most efficient means of accessing the specified data. Oracle also provides
techniques that you can use to make the optimizer perform its job better.

SQL provides statements for a variety of tasks, including:

  * Querying data

  * Inserting, updating, and deleting rows in a table

  * Creating, replacing, altering, and dropping objects

  * Controlling access to the database and its objects

  * Guaranteeing database consistency and integrity

SQL unifies all of the preceding tasks in one consistent language.

### Common Language for All Relational Databases

All major relational database management systems support SQL, so you can
transfer all skills you have gained with SQL from one database to another. In
addition, all programs written in SQL are portable. They can often be moved
from one database to another with very little modification.


[← Previous](SQL-Standards.md)

[Next →](Using-Enterprise-Manager.md)
