[Previous](Database-Object-Names-and-Qualifiers.md)
[Next](Pseudocolumns.md) JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display
this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Basic Elements of Oracle SQL](Basic-Elements-of-Oracle-SQL.md)
  3. Syntax for Schema Objects and Parts in SQL Statements

## Syntax for Schema Objects and Parts in SQL Statements

This section tells you how to refer to schema objects and their parts in the
context of a SQL statement. This section shows you:

  * The general syntax for referring to an object

  * How Oracle resolves a reference to an object

  * How to refer to objects in schemas other than your own

  * How to refer to objects in remote databases

  * How to refer to table and index partitions and subpartitions

The following diagram shows the general syntax for referring to an object or a
part:

database_object_or_part::=

![Description of database_object_or_part.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/database_object_or_part.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
database_object_or_part.eps](img_text/database_object_or_part.md)

([dblink::=](Syntax-for-Schema-Objects-and-Parts-in-SQL-
Statements.md#GUID-3B6E39A1-A538-4A8C-A314-932851A22777__BABGJDDB))

where:

  * `object` is the name of the object. 

  * `schema` is the schema containing the object. The schema qualifier lets you refer to an object in a schema other than your own. You must be granted privileges to refer to objects in other schemas. If you omit `schema`, then Oracle assumes that you are referring to an object in your own schema. 

Only schema objects can be qualified with `schema`. Schema objects are shown
with list item 8. Nonschema objects, also shown with list item 8, cannot be
qualified with `schema` because they are not schema objects. An exception is
public synonyms, which can optionally be qualified with "`PUBLIC`". The
quotation marks are required.

  * `part` is a part of the object. This identifier lets you refer to a part of a schema object, such as a column or a partition of a table. Not all types of objects have parts. 

  * `dblink` applies only when you are using the Oracle Database distributed functionality. This is the name of the database containing the object. The `dblink` qualifier lets you refer to an object in a database other than your local database. If you omit `dblink`, then Oracle assumes that you are referring to an object in your local database. Not all SQL statements allow you to access objects on remote databases. 

You can include spaces around the periods separating the components of the
reference to the object, but it is conventional to omit them.

### How Oracle Database Resolves Schema Object References

When you refer to an object in a SQL statement, Oracle considers the context
of the SQL statement and locates the object in the appropriate namespace.
After locating the object, Oracle performs the operation specified by the
statement on the object. If the named object cannot be found in the
appropriate namespace, then Oracle returns an error.

The following example illustrates how Oracle resolves references to objects
within SQL statements. Consider this statement that adds a row of data to a
table identified by the name `departments`:

    
    
    INSERT INTO departments
      VALUES (280, 'ENTERTAINMENT_CLERK', 206, 1700);
    

Based on the context of the statement, Oracle determines that `departments`
can be:

  * A table in your own schema

  * A view in your own schema

  * A private synonym for a table or view

  * A public synonym

Oracle always attempts to resolve an object reference within the namespaces in
your own schema before considering namespaces outside your schema. In this
example, Oracle attempts to resolve the name `departments` as follows:

  1. First, Oracle attempts to locate the object in the namespace in your own schema containing tables, views, and private synonyms. If the object is a private synonym, then Oracle locates the object for which the synonym stands. This object could be in your own schema, another schema, or on another database. The object could also be another synonym, in which case Oracle locates the object for which this synonym stands.

  2. If the object is in the namespace, then Oracle attempts to perform the statement on the object. In this example, Oracle attempts to add the row of data to `departments`. If the object is not of the correct type for the statement, then Oracle returns an error. In this example, `departments` must be a table, view, or a private synonym resolving to a table or view. If `departments` is a sequence, then Oracle returns an error. 

  3. If the object is not in any namespace searched in thus far, then Oracle searches the namespace containing public synonyms. If the object is in that namespace, then Oracle attempts to perform the statement on it. If the object is not of the correct type for the statement, then Oracle returns an error. In this example, if `departments` is a public synonym for a sequence, then Oracle returns an error. 

If a public synonym has any dependent tables or user-defined types, then you
cannot create an object with the same name as the synonym in the same schema
as the dependent objects.

If a synonym does not have any dependent tables or user-defined types, then
you can create an object with the same name in the same schema as the
dependent objects. Oracle invalidates any dependent objects and attempts to
revalidate them when they are next accessed.

See Also:

[Oracle Database PL/SQL Language
Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=LNPLS017) for information about how PL/SQL resolves
identifier names

### References to Objects in Other Schemas

To refer to objects in schemas other than your own, prefix the object name
with the schema name:

    
    
    schema.object
    

For example, this statement drops the `employees` table in the sample schema
`hr`:

    
    
    DROP TABLE hr.employees;

### References to Objects in Remote Databases

To refer to objects in databases other than your local database, follow the
object name with the name of the database link to that database. A database
link is a schema object that causes Oracle to connect to a remote database to
access an object there. This section tells you:

  * How to create database links

  * How to use database links in your SQL statements

#### Creating Database Links

You create a database link with the statement [CREATE DATABASE LINK](CREATE-
DATABASE-LINK.md#GUID-D966642A-B19E-449D-9968-1121AF06D793). The statement
lets you specify this information about the database link:

  * The name of the database link

  * The database connect string to access the remote database

  * The username and password to connect to the remote database

Oracle stores this information in the data dictionary.

##### Database Link Names

When you create a database link, you must specify its name. Database link
names are different from names of other types of objects. They can be as long
as 128 bytes and can contain periods (.) and the "at" sign (@).

The name that you give to a database link must correspond to the name of the
database to which the database link refers and the location of that database
in the hierarchy of database names. The following syntax diagram shows the
form of the name of a database link:

dblink::=

![Description of dblink.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/dblink.gif)  
[Description of the illustration dblink.eps](img_text/dblink.md)

where:

  * `database` should specify the `name` portion of the global name of the remote database to which the database link connects. This global name is stored in the data dictionary of the remote database. You can see this name in the `GLOBAL_NAME` data dictionary view. 

  * `domain` should specify the `domain` portion of the global name of the remote database to which the database link connects. If you omit `domain` from the name of a database link, then Oracle qualifies the database link name with the domain of your local database as it currently exists in the data dictionary. 

  * `connection_qualifier` lets you further qualify a database link. Using connection qualifiers, you can create multiple database links to the same database. For example, you can use connection qualifiers to create multiple database links to different instances of the Oracle Real Application Clusters that access the same database. 

See Also:

[Oracle Database Administratorâs
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN02901)for more information on connection qualifiers

The combination `database.domain` is sometimes called the service name.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Net Services Administrator's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=NETAG002)

##### Username and Password

Oracle uses the username and password to connect to the remote database. The
username and password for a database link are optional.

##### Database Connect String

The database connect string is the specification used by Oracle Net to access
the remote database. For information on writing database connect strings, see
the Oracle Net documentation for your specific network protocol. The database
connect string for a database link is optional.

#### References to Database Links

Database links are available only if you are using Oracle distributed
functionality. When you issue a SQL statement that contains a database link,
you can specify the database link name in one of these forms:

  * The complete database link name as stored in the data dictionary, including the `database`, `domain`, and optional `connection_qualifier` components. 

  * The `partial` database link name is the `database` and optional `connection_qualifier` components, but not the `domain` component. 

Oracle performs these tasks before connecting to the remote database:

  1. If the database link name specified in the statement is partial, then Oracle expands the name to contain the domain of the local database as found in the global database name stored in the data dictionary. (You can see the current global database name in the `GLOBAL_NAME` data dictionary view.) 

  2. Oracle first searches for a private database link in your own schema with the same name as the database link in the statement. Then, if necessary, it searches for a public database link with the same name.

     * Oracle always determines the username and password from the first matching database link (either private or public). If the first matching database link has an associated username and password, then Oracle uses it. If it does not have an associated username and password, then Oracle uses your current username and password.

     * If the first matching database link has an associated database string, then Oracle uses it. Otherwise Oracle searches for the next matching (public) database link. If no matching database link is found, or if no matching link has an associated database string, then Oracle returns an error.

  3. Oracle uses the database string to access the remote database. After accessing the remote database, if the value of the `GLOBAL_NAMES` parameter is `true`, then Oracle verifies that the `database.domain` portion of the database link name matches the complete global name of the remote database. If this condition is true, then Oracle proceeds with the connection, using the username and password chosen in Step 2. If not, Oracle returns an error. 

  4. If the connection using the database string, username, and password is successful, then Oracle attempts to access the specified object on the remote database using the rules for resolving object references and referring to objects in other schemas discussed earlier in this section.

You can disable the requirement that the `database.domain` portion of the
database link name must match the complete global name of the remote database
by setting to `FALSE` the initialization parameter `GLOBAL_NAMES` or the
`GLOBAL_NAMES` parameter of the `ALTER` `SYSTEM` or `ALTER` `SESSION`
statement.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Administratorâs
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN029) for more information on remote name resolution

### References to Partitioned Tables and Indexes

Tables and indexes can be partitioned. When partitioned, these schema objects
consist of a number of parts called partitions, all of which have the same
logical attributes. For example, all partitions in a table share the same
column and constraint definitions, and all partitions in an index share the
same index columns.

Partition-extended and subpartition-extended names let you perform some
partition-level and subpartition-level operations, such as deleting all rows
from a partition or subpartition, on only one partition or subpartition.
Without extended names, such operations would require that you specify a
predicate (`WHERE` clause). For range- and list-partitioned tables, trying to
phrase a partition-level operation with a predicate can be cumbersome,
especially when the range partitioning key uses more than one column. For hash
partitions and subpartitions, using a predicate is more difficult still,
because these partitions and subpartitions are based on a system-defined hash
function.

Partition-extended names let you use partitions as if they were tables. An
advantage of this method, which is most useful for range-partitioned tables,
is that you can build partition-level access control mechanisms by granting
(or revoking) privileges on these views to (or from) other users or roles. To
use a partition as a table, create a view by selecting data from a single
partition, and then use the view as a table.

Syntax

You can specify partition-extended or subpartition-extended table names in any
SQL statement in which the `partition_extended_name` or
`subpartition_extended_name` element appears in the syntax.

partition_extended_name::=

![Description of partition_extended_name.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/partition_extended_name.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
partition_extended_name.eps](img_text/partition_extended_name.md)

subpartition_extended_name::=

![Description of subpartition_extended_name.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/subpartition_extended_name.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
subpartition_extended_name.eps](img_text/subpartition_extended_name.md)

The DML statements `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` and the `ANALYZE`
statement require parentheses around the partition or subpartition name. This
small distinction is reflected in the `partition_extension_clause`:

partition_extension_clause::=

![Description of partition_extension_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/partition_extension_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
partition_extension_clause.eps](img_text/partition_extension_clause.md)

In `partition_extended_name`, `subpartition_extended_name`, and
`partition_extension_clause`, the `PARTITION` `FOR` and `SUBPARTITION` `FOR`
clauses let you refer to a partition without using its name. They are valid
with any type of partitioning and are especially useful for interval
partitions. Interval partitions are created automatically as needed when data
is inserted into a table.

For the respective `partition_key_value` or `subpartition_key_value`, specify
one value for each partitioning key column. For multicolumn partitioning keys,
specify one value for each partitioning key. For composite partitions, specify
one value for each partitioning key, followed by one value for each
subpartitioning key. All partitioning key values are comma separated. For
interval partitions, you can specify only one `partition_key_value`, and it
must be a valid `NUMBER` or datetime value. Your SQL statement will operate on
the partition or subpartitions that contain the values you specify.

See Also:

The `CREATE` `TABLE` [INTERVAL Clause](CREATE-
TABLE.md#GUID-F9CE0CC3-13AE-4744-A43C-EAC7A71AAAB6__BABGCEFI) for more
information on interval partitions

Restrictions on Extended Names

Currently, the use of partition-extended and subpartition-extended table names
has the following restrictions:

  * No remote tables: A partition-extended or subpartition-extended table name cannot contain a database link (dblink) or a synonym that translates to a table with a dblink. To use remote partitions and subpartitions, create a view at the remote site that uses the extended table name syntax and then refer to the remote view. 

  * No synonyms: A partition or subpartition extension must be specified with a base table. You cannot use synonyms, views, or any other objects. 

  * The `PARTITION` `FOR` and `SUBPARTITION` `FOR` clauses are not valid for DDL operations on views. 

  * In the `PARTITION` `FOR` and `SUBPARTITION` `FOR` clauses, you cannot specify the keywords `DEFAULT` or `MAXVALUE` or a bind variable for the `partition_key_value` or `subpartition_key_value`. 

  * In the `PARTITION` and `SUBPARTITION` clauses, you cannot specify a bind variable for the partition or subpartition name. 

Example

In the following statement, `sales` is a partitioned table with partition
`sales_q1_2000`. You can create a view of the single partition
`sales_q1_2000`, and then use it as if it were a table. This example deletes
rows from the partition.

    
    
    CREATE VIEW Q1_2000_sales AS
      SELECT *
        FROM sales PARTITION (SALES_Q1_2000);
    
    DELETE FROM Q1_2000_sales
      WHERE amount_sold < 0; 

### References to Object Type Attributes and Methods

To refer to object type attributes or methods in a SQL statement, you must
fully qualify the reference with a table alias. Consider the following example
from the sample schema `oe`, which contains a type `cust_address_typ` and a
table `customers` with a `cust_address` column based on the
`cust_address_typ`:

    
    
    CREATE TYPE cust_address_typ
      OID '82A4AF6A4CD1656DE034080020E0EE3D'
      AS OBJECT
        (street_address    VARCHAR2(40),
         postal_code       VARCHAR2(10),
         city              VARCHAR2(30),
         state_province    VARCHAR2(10),
         country_id        CHAR(2));
    /
    CREATE TABLE customers
      (customer_id        NUMBER(6),
       cust_first_name    VARCHAR2(20) CONSTRAINT cust_fname_nn NOT NULL,
       cust_last_name     VARCHAR2(20) CONSTRAINT cust_lname_nn NOT NULL,
       cust_address       cust_address_typ,
    . . .
    

In a SQL statement, reference to the `postal_code` attribute must be fully
qualified using a table alias, as illustrated in the following example:

    
    
    SELECT c.cust_address.postal_code
      FROM customers c;
    
    UPDATE customers c
      SET c.cust_address.postal_code = '14621-2604'
      WHERE c.cust_address.city = 'Rochester'
        AND c.cust_address.state_province = 'NY';
    

To reference a member method that does not accept arguments, you must provide
empty parentheses. For example, the sample schema `oe` contains an object
table `categories_tab`, based on `catalog_typ`, which contains the member
function `getCatalogName`. In order to call this method in a SQL statement,
you must provide empty parentheses as shown in this example:

    
    
    SELECT TREAT(VALUE(c) AS catalog_typ).getCatalogName() "Catalog Type"
      FROM categories_tab c
      WHERE category_id = 90;
    
    Catalog Type
    ------------------------------------
    online catalog


[← Previous](Syntax-for-Schema-Objects-and-Parts-in-SQL-Statements.md)

[Next →](Pseudocolumns.md)
