[Previous](SYS_GUID.md) [Next](sys_row_etag.md) JavaScript must be enabled
to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. SYS_OP_ZONE_ID

## SYS_OP_ZONE_ID

Syntax

![Description of sys_op_zone_id.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/sys_op_zone_id.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
sys_op_zone_id.eps](img_text/sys_op_zone_id.md)

Purpose

`SYS_OP_ZONE_ID` takes as its argument a rowid and returns a zone ID. The
rowid identifies a row in a table. The zone ID identifies the set of
contiguous disk blocks, called the zone, that contains the row. The function
returns a `NUMBER` value.

The `SYS_OP_ZONE_ID` function is used when creating a zone map with the
`CREATE` `MATERIALIZED` `ZONEMAP` statement. You must specify `SYS_OP_ZONE_ID`
in the `SELECT` and `GROUP` `BY` clauses of the defining subquery of the zone
map.

For `rowid`, specify the `ROWID` pseudocolumn of the fact table of the zone
map.

Use `schema` and `table` to specify the schema and name of the fact table, or
`t_alias` to specify the table alias for the fact table. The specification of
these parameters depends on the `FROM` clause in the defining subquery of the
zone map:

  * If the `FROM` clause specifies a table alias for the fact table, then you must also specify the table alias (`t_alias`) in `SYS_OP_ZONE_ID`. 

  * If the `FROM` clause does not specify a table alias for the fact table, then use `table` to specify the name of the fact table. You can use the `schema` qualifier if the fact table is in a schema other than your own. If you omit `schema`, then the database assumes the fact table is in your own schema. If the `FROM` clause specifies only one table (the fact table) then you need not specify `schema` or `table`. 

The optional `scale` parameter represents the scale of the zone map. It is not
necessary to specify this parameter because, by default, `SYS_OP_ZONE_ID` uses
the scale of the zone map being created. If you do specify `scale`, then it
must match the scale of the zone map being created. Refer to the
[SCALE](CREATE-MATERIALIZED-
ZONEMAP.md#GUID-1E5048FC-3D28-49BC-80FE-7871568B4702__CACFGGDJ) clause of
`CREATE` `MATERIALIZED` `ZONEMAP` for information on specifying the scale of a
zone map.

See Also:

[CREATE MATERIALIZED ZONEMAP](CREATE-MATERIALIZED-
ZONEMAP.md#GUID-1E5048FC-3D28-49BC-80FE-7871568B4702) for more information
on creating zone maps

Examples

The following example uses the `SYS_OP_ZONE_ID` function when creating a basic
zone map that tracks the column `time_id` of the fact table `sales`. The scale
of the zone map is the default value of 10. Therefore, the `SYS_OP_ZONE_ID`
function will default to a scale value of 10.

    
    
    CREATE MATERIALIZED ZONEMAP sales_zmap
    AS
      SELECT SYS_OP_ZONE_ID(rowid), MIN(time_id), MAX(time_id)
      FROM sales
      GROUP BY SYS_OP_ZONE_ID(rowid);
    

The following example is similar to the previous example, except that the
scale of the zone map being created is specified as 8. Therefore, the
`SYS_OP_ZONE_ID` function will default to a scale value of 8.

    
    
    CREATE MATERIALIZED ZONEMAP sales_zmap
    SCALE 8
    AS
      SELECT SYS_OP_ZONE_ID(rowid), MIN(time_id), MAX(time_id)
      FROM sales
      GROUP BY SYS_OP_ZONE_ID(rowid);
    

The following example returns an error because the scale of the zone map being
created is specified as 8, which does not match the `scale` argument of 12
specified in the `SYS_OP_ZONE_ID` function.

    
    
    CREATE MATERIALIZED ZONEMAP sales_zmap
    SCALE 8
    AS
      SELECT SYS_OP_ZONE_ID(rowid,12), MIN(time_id), MAX(time_id)
      FROM sales
      GROUP BY SYS_OP_ZONE_ID(rowid,12);
    

The following example creates a join zone map. The fact table is `sales` and
the dimension tables are `products` and `customers`. Because the table alias
`s` is specified for the fact table in the `FROM` clause, the table alias `s`
is also specified in the `SYS_OP_ZONE_ID` function.

    
    
    CREATE MATERIALIZED ZONEMAP sales_zmap
    AS
      SELECT SYS_OP_ZONE_ID(s.rowid),
             MIN(prod_category), MAX(prod_category),
             MIN(country_id), MAX(country_id)
      FROM sales s, products p, customers c
      WHERE s.prod_id = p.prod_id(+) AND
            s.cust_id = c.cust_id(+)
      GROUP BY SYS_OP_ZONE_ID(s.rowid);


[← Previous](SYS_GUID.md)

[Next →](sys_row_etag.md)
