[Previous](TO_DATE.md) [Next](TO_LOB.md) JavaScript must be enabled to
correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. TO_DSINTERVAL 

## TO_DSINTERVAL

Syntax

![Description of to_dsinterval.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/to_dsinterval.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
to_dsinterval.eps](img_text/to_dsinterval.md)

sql_format::=

![Description of sql_format.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/sql_format.gif)  
[Description of the illustration sql_format.eps](img_text/sql_format.md)

ds_iso_format::=

![Description of ds_iso_format.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/ds_iso_format.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
ds_iso_format.eps](img_text/ds_iso_format.md)

Note:

In earlier releases, the `TO_DSINTERVAL` function accepted an optional
`nlsparam` clause. This clause is still accepted for backward compatibility,
but has no effect.

Purpose

`TO_DSINTERVAL` converts its argument to a value of `INTERVAL` `DAY` `TO`
`SECOND` data type.

For the argument, you can specify any expression that evaluates to a character
string of `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `NCHAR`, or `NVARCHAR2` data type.

`TO_DSINTERVAL` accepts argument in one of the two formats:

  * SQL interval format compatible with the SQL standard (ISO/IEC 9075)

  * ISO duration format compatible with the ISO 8601:2004 standard

In the SQL format, `days` is an integer between 0 and 999999999, `hours` is an
integer between 0 and 23, and `minutes` and `seconds` are integers between 0
and 59. `frac_secs` is the fractional part of seconds between .0 and
.999999999. One or more blanks separate days from hours. Additional blanks are
allowed between format elements.

In the ISO format, `days`, `hours`, `minutes` and `seconds` are integers
between 0 and 999999999. `frac_secs` is the fractional part of seconds between
.0 and .999999999. No blanks are allowed in the value. If you specify `T`,
then you must specify at least one of the `hours`, `minutes`, or `seconds`
values.

The optional `DEFAULT` `return_value` `ON` `CONVERSION` `ERROR` clause allows
you to specify the value this function returns if an error occurs while
converting the argument to an `INTERVAL` `DAY` `TO` `SECOND` type. This clause
has no effect if an error occurs while evaluating the argument. The
`return_value` can be an expression or a bind variable, and it must evaluate
to a character string of `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `NCHAR`, or `NVARCHAR2` data
type. It can be in either the SQL format or ISO format, and need not be in the
same format as the function argument. If `return_value` cannot be converted to
an `INTERVAL` `DAY` `TO` `SECOND` type, then the function returns an error.

Examples

The following example uses the SQL format to select from the `hr.employees`
table the employees who had worked for the company for at least 100 days on
November 1, 2002:

    
    
    SELECT employee_id, last_name FROM employees
       WHERE hire_date + TO_DSINTERVAL('100 00:00:00')
       <= DATE '2002-11-01'
       ORDER BY employee_id;
    
    EMPLOYEE_ID LAST_NAME
    ----------- ---------------
            102 De Haan
            203 Mavris
            204 Baer
            205 Higgins
            206 Giet
    

The following example uses the ISO format to display the timestamp 100 days
and 5 hours after the beginning of the year 2009:

    
    
    SELECT TO_CHAR(TIMESTAMP '2009-01-01 00:00:00' + TO_DSINTERVAL('P100DT05H'),
       'YYYY-MM-DD HH24:MI:SS') "Time Stamp"
         FROM DUAL;
    
    Time Stamp
    -------------------
    2009-04-11 05:00:00

The following example returns the default value because the specified
expression cannot be converted to an `INTERVAL` `DAY` `TO` `SECOND` value:

    
    
    SELECT TO_DSINTERVAL('1o 1:02:10'
           DEFAULT '10 8:00:00' ON CONVERSION ERROR) "Value"
      FROM DUAL;
    
    Value
    -----------------------------
    +000000010 08:00:00.000000000
    


[← Previous](TO_DATE.md)

[Next →](TO_LOB.md)
