[Previous](TO_TIMESTAMP.md) [Next](TO_UTC_TIMESTAMP_TZ.md) JavaScript must
be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. TO_TIMESTAMP_TZ 

## TO_TIMESTAMP_TZ

Syntax

![Description of to_timestamp_tz.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/to_timestamp_tz.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
to_timestamp_tz.eps](img_text/to_timestamp_tz.md)

Purpose

`TO_TIMESTAMP_TZ` converts `char` to a value of `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME`
`ZONE` data type.

For `char`, you can specify any expression that evaluates to a character
string of `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `NCHAR`, or `NVARCHAR2` data type.

Note:

This function does not convert character strings to `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `LOCAL`
`TIME` `ZONE`. To do this, use a `CAST` function, as shown in
[CAST](CAST.md#GUID-5A70235E-1209-4281-8521-B94497AAEF75).

The optional `DEFAULT` `return_value` `ON` `CONVERSION` `ERROR` clause allows
you to specify the value this function returns if an error occurs while
converting `char` to `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE`. This clause has no
effect if an error occurs while evaluating `char`. The `return_value` can be
an expression or a bind variable, and it must evaluate to a character string
of `CHAR`, `VARCHAR2`, `NCHAR`, or `NVARCHAR2` data type, or null. The
function converts `return_value` to `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE` using the
same method it uses to convert `char` to `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE`. If
`return_value` cannot be converted to `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE`, then
the function returns an error.

The optional `fmt` specifies the format of `char`. If you omit `fmt`, then
`char` must be in the default format of the `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE`
data type. The optional `'nlsparam'` has the same purpose in this function as
in the `TO_CHAR` function for date conversion.

Examples

The following example converts a character string to a value of `TIMESTAMP`
`WITH` `TIME` `ZONE`:

    
    
    SELECT TO_TIMESTAMP_TZ('1999-12-01 11:00:00 -8:00',
       'YYYY-MM-DD HH:MI:SS TZH:TZM') FROM DUAL;
    
    TO_TIMESTAMP_TZ('1999-12-0111:00:00-08:00','YYYY-MM-DDHH:MI:SSTZH:TZM')
    --------------------------------------------------------------------
    01-DEC-99 11.00.00.000000000 AM -08:00
    

The following example casts a null column in a `UNION` operation as
`TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `LOCAL` `TIME` `ZONE` using the sample tables
`oe.order_items` and `oe.orders`:

    
    
    SELECT order_id, line_item_id,
       CAST(NULL AS TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE) order_date
       FROM order_items
    UNION
    SELECT order_id, to_number(null), order_date
       FROM orders;
    
      ORDER_ID LINE_ITEM_ID ORDER_DATE
    ---------- ------------ -----------------------------------
          2354            1
          2354            2
          2354            3
          2354            4
          2354            5
          2354            6
          2354            7
          2354            8
          2354            9
          2354           10
          2354           11
          2354           12
          2354           13
          2354              14-JUL-00 05.18.23.234567 PM
          2355            1
          2355            2
    . . .

The following example returns the default value of NULL because the specified
expression cannot be converted to a `TIMESTAMP` `WITH` `TIME` `ZONE` value,
due to an invalid month specification:

    
    
    SELECT TO_TIMESTAMP_TZ('1999-13-01 11:00:00 -8:00'
           DEFAULT NULL ON CONVERSION ERROR,
           'YYYY-MM-DD HH:MI:SS TZH:TZM') "Value"
      FROM DUAL;


[← Previous](TO_TIMESTAMP.md)

[Next →](TO_UTC_TIMESTAMP_TZ.md)
