[Previous](Lexical-Conventions.md) [Next](Basic-Elements-of-Oracle-SQL.md)
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Introduction to Oracle SQL](Introduction-to-Oracle-SQL.md)
  3. Tools Support 

## Tools Support

Oracle provides a number of utilities to facilitate your SQL development
process:

  * Oracle SQL Developer is a graphical tool that lets you browse, create, edit, and delete (drop) database objects, edit and debug PL/SQL code, run SQL statements and scripts, manipulate and export data, and create and view reports. 

Using SQL Developer, you can connect to any target Oracle Database schema
using standard Oracle Database authentication. DBAs can also use SQL Developer
to administer and monitor their database, with interfaces for Data Pump, RMAN,
and Auditing also included.

Once connected, you can perform operations on objects in the database. You can
also connect to schemas for selected databases, such as MySQL, Microsoft SQL
Server, and Amazon Redshift, view metadata and data in these databases, and
migrate these databases to Oracle Database.

  * Oracle SQL Developer Command Line (SQLcl) is a free command line interface for Oracle Database. It allows you to interactively or batch execute SQL and PL/SQL. 

SQLcl offers integrated Oracle Cloud (OCI) support, client side scripting with
JavaScript, custom commands, and updated SQL*Plus commands (INFO vs DESC).
Additionally, SQLcl provides native vi or Emacs editing, statement completion,
and persistent command recall for a feature-rich experience, all while
supporting your previously written SQL*Plus scripts.

  * Database Actions delivers your favorite Oracle Database desktop toolâs features and experience to your web browser. Delivered as a single-page web application, Database Actions is powered by Oracle REST Data Services (ORDS). 

Database Actions offers a worksheet for running queries and scripts, the
ability to manage and browse your data dictionary, a REST development
environment for your REST APIs and AUTOREST enabled objects, an interface for
Oracleâs JSON Document Store (SODA), a DBA console for managing the
database, a data model reporting solution, and access to PerfHub. Database
Actions is also available automatically for any Oracle Autonomous Database OCI
Service.

  * SQL*Plus is an interactive and batch query tool that is installed with every Oracle Database server or client installation. It has a command-line user interface. 

See Also:

[SQL*Plus User's Guide and
Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=SQPUG) and [Oracle APEX App Builder Userâs
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=HTMDB) for more information on these products

The Oracle Call Interface and Oracle precompilers let you embed standard SQL
statements within a procedure programming language.

  * The Oracle Call Interface (OCI) lets you embed SQL statements in C programs.

  * The Oracle precompilers, Pro*C/C++ and Pro*COBOL, interpret embedded SQL statements and translate them into statements that can be understood by C/C++ and COBOL compilers, respectively.

See Also:

[Oracle C++ Call Interface Developer's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=LNCPP20050), [Pro*COBOL Developer's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=LNPCB126), and [Oracle Call Interface Developer's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=LNOCI16120) for additional information on the embedded
SQL statements allowed in each product

Most (but not all) Oracle tools also support all features of Oracle SQL. This
reference describes the complete functionality of SQL. If the Oracle tool that
you are using does not support this complete functionality, then you can find
a discussion of the restrictions in the manual describing the tool, such as
[SQL*Plus User's Guide and
Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=SQPUG).


[← Previous](Lexical-Conventions.md)

[Next →](Basic-Elements-of-Oracle-SQL.md)
