[Previous](TO_YMINTERVAL.md) [Next](TRANSLATE-USING.md) JavaScript must be
enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. TRANSLATE 

## TRANSLATE

Syntax

![Description of translate.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/translate.gif)  
[Description of the illustration translate.eps](img_text/translate.md)

Purpose

`TRANSLATE` returns `expr` with all occurrences of each character in
`from_string` replaced by its corresponding character in `to_string`.
Characters in `expr` that are not in `from_string` are not replaced. The
argument `from_string` can contain more characters than `to_string`. In this
case, the extra characters at the end of `from_string` have no corresponding
characters in `to_string`. If these extra characters appear in `expr`, then
they are removed from the return value.

If a character appears multiple times in `from_string`, then the `to_string`
mapping corresponding to the first occurrence is used.

You cannot use an empty string for `to_string` to remove all characters in
`from_string` from the return value. Oracle Database interprets the empty
string as null, and if this function has a null argument, then it returns
null. To remove all characters in `from_string`, concatenate another character
to the beginning of `from_string` and specify this character as the
`to_string`. For example, `TRANSLATE`(`expr`, '`x0123456789`', '`x`') removes
all digits from `expr`.

`TRANSLATE` provides functionality related to that provided by the `REPLACE`
function. `REPLACE` lets you substitute a single string for another single
string, as well as remove character strings. `TRANSLATE` lets you make several
single-character, one-to-one substitutions in one operation.

This function does not support `CLOB` data directly. However, `CLOB`s can be
passed in as arguments through implicit data conversion.

See Also:

  * "[Data Type Comparison Rules](Data-Type-Comparison-Rules.md#GUID-1563C817-86BF-430B-99AB-322EE2E29187)" for more information and [REPLACE](REPLACE.md#GUID-1A79BDDF-2D3B-4AD4-98E7-985B2E59DA6B)

  * Appendix C in [Oracle Database Globalization Support Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf&id=NLSPG-GUID-AFCE41ED-775B-4A00-AF38-C436776AE0C5) for the collation determination rules, which define the collation `TRANSLATE` uses to compare characters from `expr` with characters from `from_string`, and for the collation derivation rules, which define the collation assigned to the character return value of `TRANSLATE`

Examples

The following statement translates a book title into a string that could be
used (for example) as a filename. The `from_string` contains four characters:
a space, asterisk, slash, and apostrophe (with an extra apostrophe as the
escape character). The `to_string` contains only three underscores. This
leaves the fourth character in the `from_string` without a corresponding
replacement, so apostrophes are dropped from the returned value.

    
    
    SELECT TRANSLATE('SQL*Plus User''s Guide', ' */''', '___') FROM DUAL;
    
    TRANSLATE('SQL*PLUSU
    --------------------
    SQL_Plus_Users_Guide


[← Previous](TO_YMINTERVAL.md)

[Next →](TRANSLATE-USING.md)
