[Previous](TRUNCATE-CLUSTER.md) [Next](UPDATE.md) JavaScript must be
enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [SQL Statements: MERGE to UPDATE](SQL-Statements-MERGE-to-UPDATE.md)
  3. TRUNCATE TABLE 

## TRUNCATE TABLE

Purpose

Note:

You cannot roll back a `TRUNCATE` `TABLE` statement, nor can you use a
`FLASHBACK` `TABLE` statement to retrieve the contents of a table that has
been truncated.

Use the `TRUNCATE` `TABLE` statement to remove all rows from a table. By
default, Oracle Database also performs the following tasks:

  * Deallocates all space used by the removed rows except that specified by the `MINEXTENTS` storage parameter 

  * Sets the `NEXT` storage parameter to the size of the last extent removed from the segment by the truncation process 

Removing rows with the `TRUNCATE` `TABLE` statement can be more efficient than
dropping and re-creating a table. Dropping and re-creating a table invalidates
dependent objects of the table, and requires you to repeat the following
actions:

  * Grant object privileges on the table

  * Create the indexes, integrity constraints, and triggers on the table 

  * Specify the storage parameters of the table

Truncating has none of these effects.

Removing rows with the `TRUNCATE` `TABLE` statement can be faster than
removing all rows with the `DELETE` statement, especially if the table has
numerous triggers, indexes, and other dependencies.

See Also:

  * [DELETE](DELETE.md#GUID-156845A5-B626-412B-9F95-8869B988ABD7) and [DROP TABLE](DROP-TABLE.md#GUID-39D89EDC-155D-4A24-837E-D45DDA757B45) for information on other ways of removing data from a table 

  * [TRUNCATE CLUSTER](TRUNCATE-CLUSTER.md#GUID-90C16956-644E-4E28-A53D-BB34ED630561) for information on truncating a cluster 

Prerequisites

To truncate a table, the table must be in your schema or you must have the
`DROP` `ANY` `TABLE` system privilege.

To specify the `CASCADE` clause, all affected child tables must be in your
schema or you must have the `DROP` `ANY` `TABLE` system privilege.

You can truncate a private temporary table with the existing `TRUNCATE TABLE`
command. Truncating a private temporary table will not commit and existing
transaction. This applies to both transaction-specific and session-specific
private temporary tables. Note that a truncated private temporary table will
not go into the `RECYCLEBIN`.

See Also:

"[Restrictions on Truncating Tables](TRUNCATE-
TABLE.md#GUID-B76E5846-75B5-4876-98EC-439E15E4D8A4__CHDDGIHF)"

Syntax

truncate_table::=

![Description of truncate_table.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/truncate_table.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
truncate_table.eps](img_text/truncate_table.md)

Semantics

TABLE Clause

Specify the schema and name of the table to be truncated. This table cannot be
part of a cluster. If you omit `schema`, then Oracle Database assumes the
table is in your own schema.

  * You can truncate index-organized tables and temporary tables. When you truncate a temporary table, only the rows created during the current session are removed.

  * Oracle Database changes the `NEXT` storage parameter of `table` to be the size of the last extent deleted from the segment in the process of truncation. 

  * Oracle Database also automatically truncates and resets any existing `UNUSABLE` indicators for the following indexes on `table`: range and hash partitions of local indexes and subpartitions of local indexes. 

  * If `table` is not empty, then the database marks `UNUSABLE` all nonpartitioned indexes and all partitions of global partitioned indexes on the table. However, when the table is truncated, the index is also truncated, and a new high water mark is calculated for the index segment. This operation is equivalent to creating a new segment for the index. Therefore, at the end of the truncate operation, the indexes are once again `USABLE`. 

  * For a domain index, this statement invokes the appropriate truncate routine to truncate the domain index data. 

See Also:

[Oracle Database Data Cartridge Developer's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADDCI270) for more information on domain indexes

  * If a regular or index-organized table contains LOB columns, then all LOB data and LOB index segments are truncated.

  * If `table` is partitioned, then all partitions or subpartitions, as well as the LOB data and LOB index segments for each partition or subpartition, are truncated. 

Note:

When you truncate a table, Oracle Database automatically removes all data in
the table's indexes and any materialized view direct-path `INSERT` information
held in association with the table. This information is independent of any
materialized view log. If this direct-path `INSERT` information is removed,
then an incremental refresh of the materialized view may lose data.

  * All cursors are invalidated.

Restrictions on Truncating Tables

This statement is subject to the following restrictions:

  * You cannot roll back a `TRUNCATE` `TABLE` statement. 

  * You cannot flash back to the state of the table before the truncate operation.

  * You cannot individually truncate a table that is part of a cluster. You must either truncate the cluster, delete all rows from the table, or drop and re-create the table. 

  * You cannot truncate the parent table of an enabled foreign key constraint. You must disable the constraint before truncating the table. An exception is that you can truncate the table if the integrity constraint is self-referential.

  * If a domain index is defined on `table`, then neither the index nor any index partitions can be marked `IN_PROGRESS`. 

  * You cannot truncate the parent table of a reference-partitioned table. You must first drop the reference-partitioned child table.

  * You cannot truncate a duplicated table.

MATERIALIZED VIEW LOG Clause

The `MATERIALIZED` `VIEW` `LOG` clause lets you specify whether a materialized
view log defined on the table is to be preserved or purged when the table is
truncated. This clause permits materialized view master tables to be
reorganized through export or import without affecting the ability of primary
key materialized views defined on the master to be fast refreshed. To support
continued fast refresh of primary key materialized views, the materialized
view log must record primary key information.

Note:

The keyword `SNAPSHOT` is supported in place of `MATERIALIZED` `VIEW` for
backward compatibility.

PRESERVE

Specify `PRESERVE` if any materialized view log should be preserved when the
master table is truncated. This is the default.

PURGE

Specify `PURGE` if any materialized view log should be purged when the master
table is truncated.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Administratorâs
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADMIN-GUID-022C5C7F-2EC9-44CB-A74B-CC01600BCC17) for more
information about materialized view logs and the `TRUNCATE` statement

STORAGE Clauses

The `STORAGE` clauses let you determine what happens to the space freed by the
truncated rows. The `DROP` `STORAGE` clause, `DROP` `ALL` `STORAGE` clause,
and `REUSE` `STORAGE` clause also apply to the space freed by the data deleted
from associated indexes.

DROP STORAGE

Specify `DROP` `STORAGE` to deallocate all space from the deleted rows from
the table except the space allocated by the `MINEXTENTS` parameter of the
table. This space can subsequently be used by other objects in the tablespace.
Oracle Database also sets the `NEXT` storage parameter to the size of the last
extent removed from the segment in the truncation process. This setting, which
is the default, is useful for small and medium-sized objects. The extent
management in locally managed tablespace is very fast in these cases, so there
is no need to reserve space.

DROP ALL STORAGE

Specify `DROP` `ALL` `STORAGE` to deallocate all space from the deleted rows
from the table, including the space allocated by the `MINEXTENTS` parameter.
All segments for the table, as well as all segments for its dependent objects,
will be deallocated.

Restrictions on DROP ALL STORAGE

This clause is subject to the same restrictions as described in "[Restrictions
on Deferred Segment Creation](CREATE-
TABLE.md#GUID-F9CE0CC3-13AE-4744-A43C-EAC7A71AAAB6__CJAIJAHI)".

REUSE STORAGE

Specify `REUSE` `STORAGE` to retain the space from the deleted rows allocated
to the table. Storage values are not reset to the values when the table was
created. This space can subsequently be used only by new data in the table
resulting from insert or update operations. This clause leaves storage
parameters at their current settings.

This setting is useful as an alternative to deleting all rows of a very large
tableâwhen the number of rows is very large, the table entails many
thousands of extents, and when data is to be reinserted in the future.

This clause is not valid for temporary tables. A session becomes unbound from
the temporary table when the table is truncated, so the storage is
automatically dropped.

If you have specified more than one free list for the object you are
truncating, then the `REUSE` `STORAGE` clause also removes any mapping of free
lists to instances and resets the high-water mark to the beginning of the
first extent.

CASCADE

If you specify `CASCADE`, then Oracle Database truncates all child tables that
reference `table` with an enabled `ON` `DELETE` `CASCADE` referential
constraint. This is a recursive operation that will truncate all child tables,
granchild tables, and so on, using the specified options.

Examples

Truncating a Table: Example

The following statement removes all rows from a hypothetical copy of the
sample table `hr.employees` and returns the freed space to the tablespace
containing `employees`:

    
    
    TRUNCATE TABLE employees_demo; 
    

The preceding statement also removes all data from all indexes on `employees`
and returns the freed space to the tablespaces containing them.

Preserving Materialized View Logs After Truncate: Example

The following statements are examples of `TRUNCATE` statements that preserve
materialized view logs:

    
    
    TRUNCATE TABLE sales_demo PRESERVE MATERIALIZED VIEW LOG; 
    
    TRUNCATE TABLE orders_demo;


[← Previous](TRUNCATE-CLUSTER.md)

[Next →](UPDATE.md)
