[Previous](Scalar-Subquery-Expressions.md) [Next](Expression-Lists.md)
JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Expressions](Expressions.md)
  3. Type Constructor Expressions 

## Type Constructor Expressions

A type constructor expression specifies a call to a constructor method. The
argument to the type constructor is any expression. Type constructors can be
invoked anywhere functions are invoked.

type_constructor_expression::=

![Description of type_constructor_expression.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/type_constructor_expression.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
type_constructor_expression.eps](img_text/type_constructor_expression.md)

The `NEW` keyword applies to constructors for object types but not for
collection types. It instructs Oracle to construct a new object by invoking an
appropriate constructor. The use of the `NEW` keyword is optional, but it is
good practice to specify it.

If `type_name` is an object type, then the expressions must be an ordered
list, where the first argument is a value whose type matches the first
attribute of the object type, the second argument is a value whose type
matches the second attribute of the object type, and so on. The total number
of arguments to the constructor must match the total number of attributes of
the object type.

If `type_name` is a varray or nested table type, then the expression list can
contain zero or more arguments. Zero arguments implies construction of an
empty collection. Otherwise, each argument corresponds to an element value
whose type is the element type of the collection type.

Restriction on Type Constructor Invocation

In an invocation of a type constructor method, the number of parameters
(`expr`) specified cannot exceed 999, even if the object type has more than
999 attributes. This limitation applies only when the constructor is called
from SQL. For calls from PL/SQL, the PL/SQL limitations apply.

See Also:

[Oracle Database Object-Relational Developer's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADOBJ002) for additional information on constructor
methods and [Oracle Database PL/SQL Language
Reference](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=LNPLS018) for information on PL/SQL limitations on calls
to type constructors

Expression Example

This example uses the `cust_address_typ` type in the sample `oe` schema to
show the use of an expression in the call to a constructor method (the PL/SQL
is shown in italics):

    
    
    CREATE TYPE address_book_t AS TABLE OF cust_address_typ; 
    DECLARE 
       myaddr cust_address_typ := cust_address_typ( 
         '500 Oracle Parkway', 94065, 'Redwood Shores', 'CA','USA'); 
       alladdr address_book_t := address_book_t(); 
    BEGIN 
       INSERT INTO customers VALUES ( 
          666999, 'Joe', 'Smith', myaddr, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, 
          NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL); 
    END; 
    /

Subquery Example

This example uses the `warehouse_typ` type in the sample schema `oe` to
illustrate the use of a subquery in the call to the constructor method.

    
    
    CREATE TABLE warehouse_tab OF warehouse_typ;
    
    INSERT INTO warehouse_tab 
       VALUES (warehouse_typ(101, 'new_wh', 201));
    
    CREATE TYPE facility_typ AS OBJECT (
       facility_id NUMBER,
       warehouse_ref REF warehouse_typ);
       
    CREATE TABLE buildings (b_id NUMBER, building facility_typ);
    
    INSERT INTO buildings VALUES (10, facility_typ(102, 
       (SELECT REF(w) FROM warehouse_tab w 
          WHERE warehouse_name = 'new_wh')));
    
    SELECT b.b_id, b.building.facility_id "FAC_ID",
       DEREF(b.building.warehouse_ref) "WH" FROM buildings b;
    
          B_ID     FAC_ID WH(WAREHOUSE_ID, WAREHOUSE_NAME, LOCATION_ID)
    ---------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------
            10        102 WAREHOUSE_TYP(101, 'new_wh', 201)


[← Previous](Scalar-Subquery-Expressions.md)

[Next →](Expression-Lists.md)
