[Previous](Using-Extensible-Indexing.md) [Next](book-index.md) JavaScript
must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ Extended Examples](Extended-Examples.md)
  3. Using XML in SQL Statements 

## Using XML in SQL Statements

This section describes some of the ways you can use `XMLType` data in the
database.

XMLType Tables

The sample schema `oe` contains a table `warehouses`, which contains an
`XMLType` column `warehouse_spec`. Suppose you want to create a separate table
with the `warehouse_spec` information. The following example creates a very
simple `XMLType` table with one `CLOB` column:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE xwarehouses OF XMLTYPE
      XMLTYPE STORE AS CLOB;
    

You can insert into such a table using `XMLType` syntax, as shown in the next
statement. (The data inserted in this example corresponds to the data in the
`warehouse_spec` column of the sample table `oe.warehouses` where
`warehouse_id` = 1.)

    
    
    INSERT INTO xwarehouses VALUES 
      (xmltype('<?xml version="1.0"?>
      <Warehouse>
        <WarehouseId>1</WarehouseId>
        <WarehouseName>Southlake, Texas</WarehouseName>
        <Building>Owned</Building>
        <Area>25000</Area>
        <Docks>2</Docks>
        <DockType>Rear load</DockType>
        <WaterAccess>true</WaterAccess>
        <RailAccess>N</RailAccess>
        <Parking>Street</Parking>
        <VClearance>10</VClearance>
      </Warehouse>'));

See Also:

[Oracle XML DB Developer's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADXDB0400) for information on `XMLType` and its member
methods

You can query this table with the following statement:

    
    
    SELECT e.getClobVal() FROM xwarehouses e;
    

`CLOB` columns are subject to all of the restrictions on LOB columns. To avoid
these restrictions, create an XMLSchema-based table. The XMLSchema maps the
XML elements to their object-relational equivalents. The following example
registers an XMLSchema locally. The XMLSchema (`xwarhouses.xsd`) reflects the
same structure as the `xwarehouses` table. (XMLSchema declarations use PL/SQL
and the `DBMS_XMLSCHEMA` package, so the example is shown in italics.)

See Also:

[Oracle XML DB Developer's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADXDB0800) for information on creating XMLSchemas

    
    
    begin
     dbms_xmlschema.registerSchema(
      'http://www.example.com/xwarehouses.xsd',  
      '<schema xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema" 
           targetNamespace="http://www.example.com/xwarehouses.xsd" 
           xmlns:who="http://www.example.com/xwarehouses.xsd"
           version="1.0">
     
      <simpleType name="RentalType">
       <restriction base="string">
        <enumeration value="Rented"/>
        <enumeration value="Owned"/>
       </restriction>
      </simpleType>
     
      <simpleType name="ParkingType">
       <restriction base="string">
        <enumeration value="Street"/>
        <enumeration value="Lot"/>
       </restriction>
      </simpleType>
      
      <element name = "Warehouse">
        <complexType>
         <sequence>
          <element name = "WarehouseId"   type = "positiveInteger"/>
          <element name = "WarehouseName" type = "string"/>
          <element name = "Building"      type = "who:RentalType"/>
          <element name = "Area"          type = "positiveInteger"/>
          <element name = "Docks"         type = "positiveInteger"/>
          <element name = "DockType"      type = "string"/>
          <element name = "WaterAccess"   type = "boolean"/>
          <element name = "RailAccess"    type = "boolean"/>
          <element name = "Parking"       type = "who:ParkingType"/>
          <element name = "VClearance"    type = "positiveInteger"/>
         </sequence>
        </complexType>
      </element>
    </schema>',
       TRUE, TRUE, FALSE, FALSE);
    end;
    /

Now you can create an XMLSchema-based table, as shown in the following
example:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE xwarehouses OF XMLTYPE
       XMLSCHEMA "http://www.example.com/xwarehouses.xsd"
       ELEMENT "Warehouse";
    

By default, Oracle stores this as an object-relational table. Therefore, you
can insert into it as shown in the example that follows. (The data inserted in
this example corresponds to the data in the `warehouse_spec` column of the
sample table `oe.warehouses` where `warehouse_id` = 1.)

    
    
    INSERT INTO xwarehouses VALUES(   xmltype.createxml('<?xml version="1.0"?>
       <who:Warehouse xmlns:who="http://www.example.com/xwarehouses.xsd" 
       xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
       xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.example.com/xwarehouses.xsd
       http://www.example.com/xwarehouses.xsd">
          <WarehouseId>1</WarehouseId>
          <WarehouseName>Southlake, Texas</WarehouseName>
          <Building>Owned</Building>
          <Area>25000</Area>
          <Docks>2</Docks>
          <DockType>Rear load</DockType>
          <WaterAccess>true</WaterAccess>
          <RailAccess>false</RailAccess>
          <Parking>Street</Parking>
          <VClearance>10</VClearance>
          </who:Warehouse>'));
    ...

You can define constraints on an XMLSchema-based table. To do so, you use the
`XMLDATA` pseudocolumn to refer to the appropriate attribute within the
`Warehouse` XML element:

    
    
    ALTER TABLE xwarehouses ADD (PRIMARY KEY(XMLDATA."WarehouseId"));
    

Because the data in `xwarehouses` is stored object relationally, Oracle
rewrites queries to this `XMLType` table to go to the underlying storage when
possible. Therefore the following queries would use the index created by the
primary key constraint in the preceding example:

    
    
    SELECT * FROM xwarehouses x 
       WHERE EXISTSNODE(VALUE(x), '/Warehouse[WarehouseId="1"]',
       'xmlns:who="http://www.example.com/xwarehouses.xsd"') = 1;
    
    SELECT * FROM xwarehouses x
       WHERE EXTRACTVALUE(VALUE(x), '/Warehouse/WarehouseId',
       'xmlns:who="http://www.example.com/xwarehouses.xsd"') = 1;
    

You can also explicitly create indexes on XMLSchema-based tables, which
greatly enhance the performance of subsequent queries. You can create object-
relational views on `XMLType` tables, and you can create `XMLType` views on
object-relational tables.

See Also:

  * [XMLDATA Pseudocolumn](XMLDATA-Pseudocolumn.md#GUID-EBB52EE8-57B4-4DCA-A17E-351DE5CFA934) for information on the `XMLDATA` pseudocolumn 

  * "[Creating an XMLType View: Example](CREATE-VIEW.md#GUID-61D2D2B4-DACC-4C7C-89EB-7E50D9594D30__I2117764)"

  * [Creating an Index on an XMLType Table: Example](CREATE-INDEX.md#GUID-1F89BBC0-825F-4215-AF71-7588E31D8BFE__I2113966)

XMLType Columns

The sample table `oe.warehouses` was created with a `warehouse_spec` column of
type `XMLType`. The examples in this section create a shortened form of the
`oe.warehouses` table, using two different types of storage.

The first example creates a table with an `XMLType` table stored as a `CLOB`.
This table does not require an XMLSchema, so the content structure is not
predetermined:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE xwarehouses (
       warehouse_id        NUMBER,
       warehouse_spec      XMLTYPE)
       XMLTYPE warehouse_spec STORE AS CLOB
       (TABLESPACE example
        STORAGE (INITIAL 6144)
        CHUNK 4000
        NOCACHE LOGGING);
    

The following example creates a similar table, but stores the `XMLType` data
in an object-relational `XMLType` column whose structure is determined by the
specified XMLSchema:

    
    
    CREATE TABLE xwarehouses (
       warehouse_id    NUMBER,
       warehouse_spec  XMLTYPE)
       XMLTYPE warehouse_spec STORE AS OBJECT RELATIONAL
          XMLSCHEMA "http://www.example.com/xwarehouses.xsd"
          ELEMENT "Warehouse";


[← Previous](Using-Extensible-Indexing.md)

[Next →](book-index.md)
