[Previous](Joins.md) [Next](Unnesting-of-Nested-Subqueries.md) JavaScript
must be enabled to correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [ SQL Queries and Subqueries](SQL-Queries-and-Subqueries.md)
  3. Using Subqueries 

## Using Subqueries

A subquery answers multiple-part questions. For example, to determine who
works in Taylor's department, you can first use a subquery to determine the
department in which Taylor works. You can then answer the original question
with the parent `SELECT` statement. A subquery in the `FROM` clause of a
`SELECT` statement is also called an inline view. you can nest any number of
subqueries in an inline view. A subquery in the `WHERE` clause of a `SELECT`
statement is also called a nested subquery. You can nest up to 255 levels of
subqueries in a nested subquery.

A subquery can contain another subquery. Oracle Database imposes no limit on
the number of subquery levels in the `FROM` clause of the top-level query. You
can nest up to 255 levels of subqueries in the `WHERE` clause.

If columns in a subquery have the same name as columns in the containing
statement, then you must prefix any reference to the column of the table from
the containing statement with the table name or alias. To make your statements
easier to read, always qualify the columns in a subquery with the name or
alias of the table, view, or materialized view.

Oracle performs a correlated subquery when a nested subquery references a
column from a table referred to a parent statement one or more levels above
the subquery or nested subquery. The parent statement can be a `SELECT`,
`UPDATE`, or `DELETE` statement in which the subquery is nested. A correlated
subquery conceptually is evaluated once for each row processed by the parent
statement. However, the optimizer may choose to rewrite the query as a join or
use some other technique to formulate a query that is semantically equivalent.
Oracle resolves unqualified columns in the subquery by looking in the tables
named in the subquery and then in the tables named in the parent statement.

A correlated subquery answers a multiple-part question whose answer depends on
the value in each row processed by the parent statement. For example, you can
use a correlated subquery to determine which employees earn more than the
average salaries for their departments. In this case, the correlated subquery
specifically computes the average salary for each department.

See Also:

"[Using Correlated Subqueries: Examples](SELECT.md#GUID-
CFA006CA-6FF1-4972-821E-6996142A51C6__I2066912)"

Use subqueries for the following purposes:

  * To define the set of rows to be inserted into the target table of an `INSERT` or `CREATE` `TABLE` statement 

  * To define the set of rows to be included in a view or materialized view in a `CREATE` `VIEW` or `CREATE` `MATERIALIZED` `VIEW` statement 

  * To define one or more values to be assigned to existing rows in an `UPDATE` statement 

  * To provide values for conditions in a `WHERE` clause, `HAVING` clause, or `START` `WITH` clause of `SELECT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` statements 

  * To define a table to be operated on by a containing query 

You do this by placing the subquery in the `FROM` clause of the containing
query as you would a table name. You may use subqueries in place of tables in
this way as well in `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` statements.

Subqueries so used can employ correlation variables, both defined within the
subquery itself and those defined in query blocks containing the subquery.
Refer to [table_collection_expression](SELECT.md#GUID-
CFA006CA-6FF1-4972-821E-6996142A51C6__I2104990) for more information.

Scalar subqueries, which return a single column value from a single row, are a
valid form of expression. You can use scalar subquery expressions in most of
the places where `expr` is called for in syntax. Refer to "[Scalar Subquery
Expressions](Scalar-Subquery-
Expressions.md#GUID-475D80C3-C873-4475-AB1A-8837C5CF8CE4)" for more
information.


[← Previous](Joins.md)

[Next →](Unnesting-of-Nested-Subqueries.md)
