[Previous](XMLDIFF.md) [Next](XMLEXISTS.md) JavaScript must be enabled to
correctly display this content

  1. [SQL Language Reference ](index.md)
  2. [Functions](Functions.md)
  3. XMLELEMENT 

## XMLELEMENT

Syntax

![Description of xmlelement.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/xmlelement.gif)  
[Description of the illustration xmlelement.eps](img_text/xmlelement.md)

XML_attributes_clause::=

![Description of xml_attributes_clause.eps
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/sqlrf/img/xml_attributes_clause.gif)  
[Description of the illustration
xml_attributes_clause.eps](img_text/xml_attributes_clause.md)

Purpose

`XMLElement` takes an element name for `identifier` or evaluates an element
name for `EVALNAME` `value_expr`, an optional collection of attributes for the
element, and arguments that make up the content of the element. It returns an
instance of type `XMLType`. `XMLElement` is similar to `SYS_XMLGen` except
that `XMLElement` can include attributes in the XML returned, but it does not
accept formatting using the `XMLFormat` object.

The `XMLElement` function is typically nested to produce an XML document with
a nested structure, as in the example in the following section.

For an explanation of the `ENTITYESCAPING` and `NONENTITYESCAPING` keywords,
refer to [Oracle XML DB Developer's
Guide](/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/database/oracle/oracle-
database/23/sqlrf&id=ADXDB1620).

You must specify a value for Oracle Database to use an the enclosing tag. You
can do this by specifying `identifier`, which is a string literal, or by
specifying `EVALNAME` `value_expr`. In the latter case, the value expression
is evaluated and the result, which must be a string literal, is used as the
identifier. The identifier does not have to be a column name or column
reference. It cannot be an expression or null. It can be up to 4000 characters
if the initialization parameter `MAX_STRING_SIZE` `=` `STANDARD`, and 32767
characters if `MAX_STRING_SIZE` `=` `EXTENDED`.

The objects that make up the element content follow the `XMLATTRIBUTES`
keyword. In the `XML_attributes_clause`, if the `value_expr` is null, then no
attribute is created for that value expression. The type of `value_expr`
cannot be an object type or collection. If you specify an alias for
`value_expr` using the `AS` clause, then the `c_alias` or the evaluated value
expression (`EVALNAME` `value_expr`) can be up to 4000 characters if the
initialization parameter `MAX_STRING_SIZE` `=` `STANDARD`, and 32767
characters if `MAX_STRING_SIZE` `=` `EXTENDED`.

See Also:

"[Extended Data Types](Data-
Types.md#GUID-8EFA29E9-E8D8-40A6-A43E-954908C954A4)" for more information on
`MAX_STRING_SIZE`

For the optional `value_expr` that follows the `XML_attributes_clause` in the
diagram:

  * If `value_expr` is a scalar expression, then you can omit the `AS` clause, and Oracle uses the column name as the element name. 

  * If `value_expr` is an object type or collection, then the `AS` clause is mandatory, and Oracle uses the specified `c_alias` as the enclosing tag. 

  * If `value_expr` is null, then no element is created for that value expression. 

See Also:

[SYS_XMLGEN](SYS_XMLGEN.md#GUID-1AC25984-F4AB-468E-BF53-561275AD44E8)

Examples

The following example produces an `Emp` element for a series of employees,
with nested elements that provide the employee's name and hire date:

    
    
    SELECT XMLELEMENT("Emp", XMLELEMENT("Name", 
       e.job_id||' '||e.last_name),
       XMLELEMENT("Hiredate", e.hire_date)) as "Result"
       FROM employees e WHERE employee_id > 200;
    
    Result
    -------------------------------------------------------------------
    <Emp>
      <Name>MK_MAN Hartstein</Name>
      <Hiredate>2004-02-17</Hiredate>
    </Emp>
     
    <Emp>
      <Name>MK_REP Fay</Name>
      <Hiredate>2005-08-17</Hiredate>
    </Emp>
     
    <Emp>
      <Name>HR_REP Mavris</Name>
      <Hiredate>2002-06-07</Hiredate>
    </Emp>
     
    <Emp>
      <Name>PR_REP Baer</Name>
      <Hiredate>2002-06-07</Hiredate>
    </Emp>
     
    <Emp>
      <Name>AC_MGR Higgins</Name>
      <Hiredate>2002-06-07</Hiredate>
    </Emp>
     
    <Emp>
      <Name>AC_ACCOUNT Gietz</Name>
      <Hiredate>2002-06-07</Hiredate>
    </Emp>
    
    6 rows selected.
    

The following similar example uses the `XMLElement` function with the
`XML_attributes_clause` to create nested XML elements with attribute values
for the top-level element:

    
    
    SELECT XMLELEMENT("Emp",
          XMLATTRIBUTES(e.employee_id AS "ID", e.last_name),
          XMLELEMENT("Dept", e.department_id),
          XMLELEMENT("Salary", e.salary)) AS "Emp Element"
       FROM employees e
       WHERE e.employee_id = 206;
    
    Emp Element
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    <Emp ID="206" LAST_NAME="Gietz">
      <Dept>110</Dept>
      <Salary>8300</Salary>
    </Emp>
    

Notice that the `AS` `identifier` clause was not specified for the `last_name`
column. As a result, the XML returned uses the column name `last_name` as the
default.

Finally, the next example uses a subquery within the `XML_attributes_clause`
to retrieve information from another table into the attributes of an element:

    
    
    SELECT XMLELEMENT("Emp", XMLATTRIBUTES(e.employee_id, e.last_name),
       XMLELEMENT("Dept", XMLATTRIBUTES(e.department_id,
       (SELECT d.department_name FROM departments d
       WHERE d.department_id = e.department_id) as "Dept_name")),
       XMLELEMENT("salary", e.salary),
       XMLELEMENT("Hiredate", e.hire_date)) AS "Emp Element"
       FROM employees e
       WHERE employee_id = 205;
    
    Emp Element
    -------------------------------------------------------------------
    <Emp EMPLOYEE_ID="205" LAST_NAME="Higgins">
      <Dept DEPARTMENT_ID="110" Dept_name="Accounting"/>
      <salary>12008</salary>
      <Hiredate>2002-06-07</Hiredate>
    </Emp>


[← Previous](XMLDIFF.md)

[Next →](XMLEXISTS.md)
